Acceptance of oneself, one’s past and one’s future is essential in a search for belonging. We this is this true on many levels such as emotional acceptance, physical acceptance and cultural acceptance. This ideal is also seen throughout Peter Skrzynecki’s poems Migrant Hostel, Peter Skrzynecki and Ancestors.
Migrant Hostel explores the emotions surrounding the migrant’s experiences of detainment at Parkes centre. The ‘Migrant Hostel’ demonstrates this through the use of the simile “nationalities sought/ each other out, instinctively/like homing pigeons.” This line highlighted how every migrant saw it essential to be accepted and how the identification of there past from war torn Europe helped them belong and “flock together”. But it also shows how one’s past can also lead to alienation from groups due to their past and heritage. This in a sense contradicts the message because emotional and cultural acceptance of one’s past lead to separation by “memories of hunger and hate”
In Feliks Skrzynecki we look at how the lack of cultural acceptance of one’s future can lead to estrangement and how full acceptance of oneself and one’s past can help survive in an unfamiliar land. In the stanza 4 we see, how Feliks was branded because his lack of effort to learn the ways of Australia, this is seen in the example “Did your father ever attempt to learn English?” Although peter faced this problem, he still felt a firm sense of home and acceptance in his garden. This is seen in stanza 5, “my father, sits out the evening, with his dog, smoking, watching stars and street lights come on, Happy as I have never been. This again highlighted that acceptance is vital in the search for belonging and acknowledgment.
In Ancestors we see how the persona felt about his past and how disconnected he was from his ancestors. The poem Ancestors is riddled with rhetorical questions, highlighting the entirety of the persona’s disconnection from his past. This is further compounded by the words “who are these shadows….what secrets…where do they point to…why do they never speak....why do you wake” This poem showed how his disconnection from his heritage and custom had lead to repudiation because of his unfamiliarity with where he was from. In the poem we also that the “bearded men” in his dream had accepted each other and this shows how they all had a sense of belonging, shown by the body language “standing shoulder to shoulder”. This further compounds the notion that acceptance of ones past and oneself is necessary in the search for belonging.
These three poems all highlighted how “Acceptance of oneself, one’s past and one’s future is essential in a search for belonging”. We see lack of acceptance has consequences such as alienation and estrangement. And acceptance of oneself, past and future can lead to a built sense of security and happiness.

The intended audience of Christine Anu’s song are native Australians and Torres Strait islanders since the song was written in their perspective. The songs intended audience also includes all Australians since it is written broad enough for everyone to have a strong connection with Australia as their home.
Christine Anu successfully portrays two major aspects of belonging trough a variety of textual and vocal features. Firstly she explores the idea that belonging to people or places shapes our identity, ideology and sense of self. Secondly she explores how the barriers which prevent belonging can create a need to belong.
Christine Anu and “My Island Home “shares her perception that belonging to certain people or place creates our ideology of life and where we rightfully belong. The persona in the song has a strong connection with her ancestors, culturally and historically, Christine associates her connection of people and place by the choice of language, using 2nd person to describe them. E.g. “we live by the sea “and “My home is Australia” this use of language shows pride and deep love for belonging to Australia and Indigenous people.  This creates our perspective of belonging to be one of happiness with self and outer world.
Her perception of belonging is created in her adolescence, sharing the cultural and traditional connections with her community she adopts the similar connection to land and sea the native people have. This adoption is evident in the bridge of the song “in the boat on the sea again, and I’m holding that long turtle spear, and I feel close to where it must be”. She emphasises the point that her home must be by the sea because that’s where she is from and where she feels that she belongs. The pride of her belonging is especially evident in the vocal tone of Christina Anu, who shows natural feelings of emotion trough exaggeration of the chorus, and a specific rhythm which illustrates the beauty of belonging to something. We create our own identity from the feelings and affections we have with belonging to certain societies and their way of life.
Inclusion and isolation demonstrates our personal identity which portrays who we are. Our perspectives and views are changed depending upon what we belong to. Christine Anu has an ardour for Australia. Her love and warmth towards Australia will always stay with her because of her past experiences of belonging to Australia and her people people’s rightful place. Christine Anu uses the sentence” My home is Australia, we are a land bound by sea” to show that Australia is a part of her which will never be lost due to her native background. She emphasises how her and land are one, and it is this affection that had shaped her identity.
The second aspect of Belonging in the song “My Island Home” which I find very interesting is people who had experienced belonging to a place or community, but now do not longer share this connection due to barriers, the same barriers will sometimes encourage people to aspire to belong. 
The need to Belonging can be everlasting, since us humans always search for companionship, happiness which can only be achieved through belonging. The past memories will always give you small glimpses of belonging and association with it. But as conveyed by Christine, these glimpses are obviously not enough to make you feel the same way real belonging makes you feel. The composer is trapped by barriers like modernisation, family and living far away from the place she belongs to. But because of the history she has with the land and her people, the belonging she felt than encourages her now to be persistent in finding belonging, because something so important to Christine like her roots and home could never be forgot in her mind. The composer shows the importance of belonging by using a reflection question to compare her life in the present time and when she belonged. E. G “Will this place ever satisfy me” this shows how much she wants to belong again, which portrays her strong love for her place of belonging. The composer only reveals trough her dreams how she feels towards belonging. The quote “Six years i have lived in the desert, Every night i dreamt of the sea”  really shows the identity of Christine and the unbreakable connection she has with Australia trough her native roots. Therefore Belonging is a way of life which characterises us humans and creates our individuality.
Due to the complex and abstract nature of the concept of belonging, a true sense of belonging can be found in different circumstances for different people. As each individual has their own desires, needs and values, they find their place in the world and a genuine sense of belonging in various avenues. Many individuals find the strongest sense of belonging through relationships, due to the fact that by nature these connections fulfill the human need for social interaction and enrich the lives of the persons involved. Conversely, relationships which do not fit the conventional model of this kind of connection and thus result in negative outcomes for individuals can ultimately lead to a true sense of not belonging and its related notions of isolation and disaffection. Instead, these individuals may attain the same sense that they truly belong outside relationships, though their connections to other ideas such as place and culture, or within themselves. Shakespeare’s As You Like It and Khyenstse Norbu’sTravellers and Magicains are two texts in which an exploration of belonging and its different meanings for individuals ultimately leads to a deeper understanding of the complexity of the concept of belonging and thus that individuals can find a true sense of belonging in a great range of places, not limited to relationships.

Relationships by nature embody ideas of a connection on a psychological level between two people which can fulfill other fundamental human needs such as the need for social interaction, and thus can result in the individuals involved attaining a true sense of belonging.  When individuals find meaning and purpose in connections with other people, as they often do in relationships, the need to belong is fulfilled in the greatest sense as the individuals life is enriched by the positive outcomes for their self esteem, security and stability. This idea can be seen in the relationship between Adam and Orlando set up by Shakespeare in As You Like It. Adam promises that he will “follow thee to the last gasp with truth and loyalty” when Orlando decides to go to the forest. By changing the rhyme scheme for Adam’s declaration of commitment to Orlando, Shakespeare effectively emphasizes the lack of superficiality that exists in this relationship as opposed to other relationships he sets up in the play. In their relationship, Orlando finds purpose and stability in his life, knowing he has another person who will always look out for him, just as Adam finds purpose knowing he will always be in the company of Orlando, seen where he states “Fortune cannot recompense me better than to die well and not my master’s debtor.” Through this, Shakespeare communicates that in relationships which are built on trust, loyalty or other solid connections between people, individuals can find meaning, stability, purpose and thus a true sense that they belong. In Travellers and Magicians Norbu inquires into similar ideas which support the value of relationships in the search for a true sense of belonging. In the relationship between Tashi and Deki, Norbu communicates the idea of their deeper connection on all levels through quickly alternating close ups between the expressive eyes of Deki and Tashi, which create the idea that their souls and desires are connecting as their eyes remain fixed on one another. The couple is also often presented on equal terms embracing each other, caring and showing affection through mid shots. Their connection leads Tashi to exclaim “If I never left this place, and died right here with you, I would not die unhappy.” Norbu thus effectively supports the idea that meaning and purpose can be found in real connections with others, and that consequently individuals can find the strongest sense of belonging in relationships such as these. Through this relationship, he also inquires further into the reasons why relationships can lead to a individual feeling that they truly belong. By suggesting that the positive outcomes which the human psyche correlates with attaining a sense of belonging, such as understanding, stability and care manifest themselves in relationships, Norbu advocates and supports the almost inextricable link between belonging and relationships.

Whilst there may be an almost inextricable link between belonging and relationships, not all relationships ultimately lead to individuals finding a genuine sense of belonging which manifests itself in positive outcomes for their lives. Some relationships can be driven by the quest to maintain control, have power and maintain authority over others or by the decisively one sided benefits to one of the individuals involved. In these relationships, it is more likely that individuals find themselves not belonging, isolated and disaffected rather than finding a true sense of belonging. This idea is expanded on by Norbu in Travellers and Magicians. The relationship between Deki and Agay is characterized by Agay’s domination of his young and beautiful wife. This is emphasized through low shots which place the vertically challenged Agay in a position of power over Deki and his statement to Tashi that he makes her live in the isolated hut with him because “We may grow old, but our jealousy stays young.” Deki is thus presented by Norbu as isolated in her relationship; she does not feel the strong connection with Agay that conventional notions of being in the marriage relationship would suggest. Thus through the negative consequences for Deki of being in a relationship with Tashi, and her strong sense of isolation and the feeling she does not truly belong, Norbu communicates the idea that relationships are not always central for individuals trying to find a true sense of belonging. Shakespeare through the representation of a relationship in which love is unrequited similarly challenges the connection between relationships and a true sense of belonging. Whilst Phoebe ends up marrying Silvius, there is a lot of ambiguity in whether she truly loves him and thus has attained a genuine sense of belonging in this relationship. When they marry, all Phoebe comments is “I will not eat my word now thou art mine Thy faith and my fancy to thee doth combine.” A rhyming couplet draws emphasis to this section of the play, where it is not resolved whether Phoebe truly commits her whole self into this relationship, and thus whether Silvius will experience the positive outcomes of the relationship he has desired throughout the play. In this ambiguity, Shakespeare supports the notion that individuals do not always find the greatest sense that they belong in relationships, especially relationships which are unequal and result in negative outcomes for individuals.

Individuals can find a true sense of belonging outside the confines of a relationship in connections to ideas such as culture, place or even within themselves. As each individual is intrinsically different, so are the ways in which they fulfill the fundamental human need to belong.  Norbu presents the ideas that individuals can find contentment and fulfill the need to belong through connection to traditional culture and village life. In the first scene, a series of  quickly changing mid shots show the activities of daily life in their rural setting. The villagers all wear traditional Gho’s and shrieks of joy emphasized through an echo when practicing archery suggest they are content with these repetitive activities. Essentially, they conform to the expectations of their traditional culture and life and find a true sense of belonging and fulfillment in this connection. Norbu thus demonstrates in this connection that a true sense of belonging and its positive outcomes can be found outside relationships. Duke Senior in As You Like It, can similarly be described as finding a genuine sense of belonging and contentment with his place and environment, the Forest of Arden. He asks Amiens and the audience “Are not these woods More free from peril than the envious court?” In the use of the words “free from peril,” Shakespeare suggests that in this place Duke Senior feels comfortable, content and untroubled and thus has developed a true sense of belonging with this place. The character of Jacques also finds an inner contentment within his meaningless existence.. At the end of the play, Jacques states “I am for other than for dancing measures” and retires to Duke Senior’s “abandoned cave.” He deliberately chooses not to belong in relationships with his comrades, instead he finds his own sense of contentment within himself, and thus Shakespeare demonstrates that a true sense of belonging can be found within an individual.

The complexity of the concept of belonging often means that individuals find belonging in different places to other individuals. Whilst many individuals can attain a true sense of belonging in relationships, due to the nature of these connections and the positive outcomes they have for individuals, there are some relationships in which individuals experience the opposite from truly belonging. Furthermore, there are many circumstances outside the confines of relationships in which individuals can attain a genuine sense of belonging, including culture, place and within themselves. Analysis of a range of texts including As You Like It and Travellers and Magicians inquire into these ideas and foster an appreciation for the need to consider different circumstances and individuals before making assumptions about the multifaceted concept of belonging. Ultimately, relationships are often the connections in which individuals find the truest sense that they belong, but the fulfillment of the fundamental need to belong is not strictly limited to the confines of a relationship.
The concept of belonging can be explored and received in various ways.

Belonging is a fluid and changing concept which changes as the individual grows an understanding of them, and the people around them moreover belonging is dependent on the fulfillment of different sub categories, social, cultural, historical and personal, for an individual to belong one needs to, to some extent fulfill some of these aspects. The texts rainbows end by Jane Harrison, little miss sunshine by_____ and the island by___ explores how the concept of belonging can be received and portrayed.
Jane Harrison’s play Rainbows End explores the shared experiences of an Aboriginal family living in a rural community in the 1950s. The concept of belonging in this text is developed through the characterization of the three female protagonists, who all come from a different generation over the course of Indigenous struggle. The responder is offered a profound insight into the shared hardship of the Aboriginal Community, through the exploration of themes such as family, shared struggle and adversity, the composer uses a family of three women to expose the effects of past treatment and how a sense of belonging can be formed among the marginalized.

The family members have different viewpoints and opinions on the white community and their position as an aboriginal. The composer forms the characters viewpoint through the use of dreaming sequences. The responder is taken to the characters sub-conscious mind, reflecting the internal landscape. It is during these dreaming sequences that the responder is given the characters longing for acceptance from white society, this technique not only portrays the characters longing for acceptance but also the characters acceptance of their situation, as the composer has intentionally not given Nan dear a dream sequence.  Nan dear is against white society and uses this to form her identity as an aboriginal, Gladys desperately wants to be white, she is the product of the white society that taught children being white is best, and dolly is proud of being aboriginal but is ashamed of the status that comes with it. She like her mother wants the same opportunities as white people have. Because of these differing views conflict arises among the family, Nan is content with her lot in life, Gladys is passively accepting though tries to express her need to change onto dolly, whilst dolly is caught between the two conflicting viewpoints of her Nan and her mother.

It is these differing opinions based on their personal interpretation of the society and culture they live in that prevent the family from belonging.  Their arguments are based on their acceptance or non acceptance of their situation.  This barrier is specifically highlighted with the introduction of Errol into the family. Errol is white and has contrasting views and opinions to the rest of the family, but nonetheless he is in love with dolly and it is this inter-racial mixing that magnifies how aboriginals don’t belong in white society, that whites don’t belong in aboriginal society and the differing opinions of Nan dear and Gladys. This factor portrays that belonging to the minority is difficult if the individual comes from the majority.  Nan dear does not like Errol, she chooses to alienate Errol because he is from the majority, like white prejudices towards aboriginals it is deep seeded “she is openly hostile towards Errol”, Nan dear tries to sabotage the relationship dolly and Errol try to form. She does this through her fear of dolly facing the same kind of treatment that she and Gladys faced “they’d make her work for someone like they did you”, thus reflecting how Nan dear is the product of cultural suppression which leads her to choose to not belong to white society. 

The composer creates belonging though the communities continued struggle of decent housing, education and opportunities is dealt with by the composer as a tool to portray the different opinions of the different generations.  In the fight for better housing Gladys throws away her once passive attitude, Nan dear keeps her pessimistic attitude and dolly follows.  The struggle for housing and better opportunities is one of the factors that unite the aboriginal community. All having a common purpose and goal which strengthens there idea of belonging this is shown through the petition given to the government.  Also symbolically during the petition Gladys stands up and talks about the need for the aboriginal community to be heard “we demand to be heard”, in doing this Gladys accepts that she will not belong in white society, but belongs with the aboriginal community in their collective fight for their rights. 

The movies little miss sunshine by like rainbows end explores the dynamics of a family who are all very different and have trouble uniting. The composer portrays the concept of belonging as constantly changing as the individual evolves, and that belonging can be formed on the comminality of goals are purpose 
Each family member realizing that  in order to get along, to function they first need to accept themselves and to stop trying to be something there not. This realization is accomplished when the family is forced to join together on a process driven journey to a beauty pageant. The family takes this journey in a bright yellow convey van- yellow symbolizing warmth and sunshine, whilst also being a warning colour suggesting that the family inside is struggling but will come good in the end.  The convey van is also used as a symbolic representation of the disintegration of the families emotional barriers, as the family argues the convey van brakes until eventually the door falls of.

Influences on belonging and not belonging are explored through the family dynamics and the characters.  The youngest olive is heavily influenced by the media and what the media suggests is beautiful, this is symbolically shown through the reflection of the T.V onto her glasses.  It is because of this strong influence that she tries to belong in the world of beauty pageants.  It is only when she attends the pageant does she realize that she does not belong here, olive is juxtaposed next to Barbie doll like contestants with excessive makeup, that are so involved in winning and becoming “beautiful”  that they can’t see that beauty is in fact in accepting the person one is. Whilst olive is natural and represents the acceptance on oneself. 
Another influence on belonging is shown through the father. Who in his need to win subconsciously forges a barrier between belonging and not-belonging.  Richard lives under the belief that coming first is what signifies success, he constantly excises’ this view onto his family and is the foundation of his career.  
 
When his concept of winning fails he is then forced to see that his views on winning is one of the reasons that the family was so dysfunctional, because he was pushing the idea of coming first and always succeeding onto the family. Leaving no room for human era or relaxed human behavior “sarcasm is losers trying to bring winners down to their level…..don’t apologize olive. It’s a sign of weakness”.  Therefore when he loses his winning opinions he gives himself the chance to belong to his family without winning or losing prejudices.  Thus the concept of belonging is portrayed as only able to flourish when the individual ceases trying to force people to be something there not.  

The picture book, The Island portrays belonging as impossible if there is an ignorant and fearful dominant culture. The book portrays to the responder an “alien” new comer into a strongly built and well organized society.  The alien is portrayed as thin and white- white and unclothed showing that the new comer is an empty canvas to be painted opinions onto. The new comer is also thin and innocent looking showing how the character is reliant on acceptance to survive. Whilst the dominant society is given the appearance of large, over bearing, they are always portrayed as a collective group portraying their dominance.  They are in black clothing, they all appear to look the same- again representing there collectiveness, and they are holding pitch forks- portraying their feelings towards the new comer – unwelcomed. 

The dominating society belong together they appear to look the same, and have much of the same views, they have collectively created a community that are dependent on each other and there likeness. The society is well established and fearful of anything that will imbalance its structure and that is different from their social, cultural and historical similarities.  The new being does not offer any change, it does not do anything to radicalize the community but just its presence of being different offers physiological fear to the dominant society.

The book demonstrates the effect of fear, what it does to a community and the object being feared. Through fear of this unknown the community alienated the unknown, trying to forget its existence when this did not work the community they contemplated integrating the being. But the overbearing fear of the effect the being would have on there system led them to cast out the different being.       The being that was submitted to the dominant cultures fear was treated as inferior, become the dominant society did not want the unknown to belong they create a barrier around themselves in fear of the unknown thus defining themselves as exclusive. Because the dominant society was afraid of the unknown they showed ignorance and a lack of open thinking which hindered them from acceptance and understanding of anything other then their own “exclusive” people. 
 
To what extent would you go in order to belong? Would u be willing to surrender yourself? 
Good morning. My name is Kabir Singh and today I would like to present you with what is my perception of belonging. Perceptions and ideas of belonging, or of not belonging, vary. 
Belonging is known as a process of identification that establishes our relationships between individuals and their society. Often, the pursuit of a sense of belonging dominates one’s life as it can emerge from the connections made with people and society. It has been found that man’s need for companionship, belonging is natural and instinctive and something that is pre-coded in the primitive brain. Aristotle once said, “The impulse to form partnership of this kind is present in all men by nature.” Knowledge of one’s identity through knowledge of where one belongs can give meaning to life and bring about happiness, while exclusion can trigger a sense of unworthiness, even inferiority, and alienation as shown through the poetry of Peter Skryznecki and the film ‘Into the Wild’
We chose the poems of Peter Skrzynecki as our prescribed text and there is a greater sense of not belonging and alienation in every poem than belonging and acceptance. It is almost that he wants us to feel sympathy and condolence for him in his poems. Poems such as ‘Migrant Hostel, Ancestors and Feliks Skryznecki’ convey his message of being estranged and isolated from his identity of the polish culture and his uncertain future. To convey these views Skrzynecki uses a variety of techniques, the main ones being: metaphors, similes, personification, rhetorical questions and the use of tone.
The poem Migrant hostel (Parkes 1949-1951) carries authencity and themes of difficulties assimilating into a new culture, feelings of uncertainty and insecurity and therefore issues surrounding identity, or the lack OF identity. In 'Migrant Hostel' the poet uses the imagery of birds to show us this sense of uncertainty. Example 'We lived like birds of passage/Always sensing a change' and 'Nationalities sought each other instinctively-/ Like a homing pigeon 'Feeling uncertain and insecure the migrants sought comfort and security from people with a familiar Background and felt a sense of belonging and acceptance as they were ‘recognised by accents’. Also in 'Migrant Hostel' the poet effectively reveals the problems that migrants face of Assimilating into a new culture.  Skryznecki does this with his powerful Image and personification of the boom gate at the migrant hostel. ‘As it rose and fell like a finger/ Pointed in reprimand or shame’. The word 'reprimand' has negative connotations in this context being that the outside world may not be welcoming. Here we also get the sense that migrants are ostracized from the outside world as they are ‘sealed off the highway’ which is an obstacle to freedom, new life as they are unable to reach it.
 
In the Poem 'Felix Skrzynecki' the poet explores a contrast of the theme of strong cultural identity and alienation for Feliks Skrzynecki and loss of cultural identity for Peter Skrzynecki in a new land. Feliks Skrzynecki chooses to isolate himself from society as he surrenders belonging in an Australian society; rather he chooses to belong in his garden as he ‘loved his garden like an only child’. Feliks feels secure and finds peace of mind in his garden and the use of hyperbole ‘Ten times around the world’ creates a strong connection between Feliks and his garden. ‘His polish friends/talking they reminisced about farms where paddocks flowered’. This shows Feliks strong cultural identity with his polish friends an that he has a spiritual connection to the country that shaped him. Peter Skrzynecki realises that to become his own person (to fulfil his identity) he must move away from his family and surrender the polish culture. The loss of cultural identity is communicated through the image made by lines such as ‘I forgot my first polish word/After that like a dumb prophet, /Watched me pegging my tents/Further and further south Of Hadrian's Wall'.
The use of alliteration and repetition (a potent literary technique) ‘further and further’ further emphasises the point of how much of the lost of the polish heritage and Peter’s cultural identity.
The poem ‘Ancestors’ is an interesting and enigmatic poem that raises many questions and images but gives little definite comment. The poem encourages the audience think about their past and the people who are responsible for our existence. These figures seem to appear to the poet in a dream but cannot communicate with him. There is a clear spiritual connection between the persona and these "bearded, faceless men/standing shoulder to shoulder?’ which is a collective term and creates a sense of belonging with the use of alliteration but the rhetorical question undercuts this belonging by confusing the audience. There is also a real sense of uncertainty about his identity as ‘they whisper into the darkness". The poet's continual use of "they" emphasises his lack of knowledge about his ancestors. There is a sense of frustration in the final stanzas. The poet sees clearer faces yet he awakens and cannot speak ‘Why do you wake as there faces become clearer’. He captures his dissatisfaction and impotence in the simile, "Your tongue as dry as caked mud." There is an inevitable relationship between the shadowy figures and the poet as “the wind tastes of blood’. This last line answers all the rhetorical questions asked in the poem as it tells the poet that he does have a blood related connection with his ancestors but also suggests that he has betrayed and surrendered his own cultural identity.

My related text ‘Into the wild’ is a story about youthful alienation that alternately irritates and engages. Based on a true story “Into the Wild” is basically a road picture that follows the adventures of Christopher McCandless, a bright college boy who chooses not to belong to a society that lives a lie bases on reasons and expectations. "If we admit that human life can be ruled by reason, then all possibility of life is destroyed." A quote from Christopher McCandless. So he decides to leave and surrender his ‘fake society’ identity behind "The core of mans' spirit comes from new experiences." By Chris McCandless and hitch hikes his way for two years like a drifter to live in the wild in search for happiness and his true identity. 

An example of this concept of not belonging can be seen when the family are having dinner, Christopher’s parents offer him to buy a car in order to improve his social image but Christopher sees this as an unnecessary measure. ‘Why would I want a new car? / are you worried what the neighbors might think’. Chris abandons his family and decides to chuck it all and become a self-styled "aesthetic voyager" in search of "ultimate freedom." in the wild where he feels a great sense of belonging to the places and with the people he meets, "I have lived through much and now I think I have found what is needed for happiness. A quiet, secluded life in the country with the possibility of being useful to people’. This concept of belonging explores that he has found happiness and therefore found his identity and freedom. This can be seen through the ‘long and far camera angle shots’ of the landscape and the natural imagery of the snow and the Grand canyon.
The impression this film gives is that this act of rebellion by Chris is primarily a way to punish his parents for what he perceives as their hypocrisy and for the misery they put him and his sister through with their brutal fights all during their childhoods ‘we were the bastard children’
Techniques which were used throughout the film are the use of constant voice over’s and close camera angle shots of him writing his thoughts in his diary. The voice over’s and written diary shots provide an incentive to the actions of Christopher and how he feels about them.  A major concept of belonging to society is portrayed as the most important custom in ones life. The realization of the concept of belonging to society to live can clearly be seen after the death of Christopher. The montage of Christopher’s past at the end of the film puts together the memorable moments in his life which ironically were all related with his family. It shows him hugging his parents and finally realizing the value of belonging to a society. This realization is also backed up by the closing statement of Chris writing in his diary in his last moments “Happiness is only real when shared”. This immediately portrays belonging to society as a necessity to feel happy and valued.
The poetry of Peter Skrzynecki and The film’ Into The Wild” demonstrate that without a sense of belonging, which in essence arises from knowing one’s identity, the individual is incomplete, Hence, life is incomplete. Realizing one’s identity, through finding a place where one belongs is a key piece in the puzzle that is contentment. Even a life without belonging is consumed by the yearning to belong-showing that a life untouched by belonging is a life in which satisfaction hence happiness is unattainable.

As John Donne proclaimed, “No man is an Island.” Belonging is a central aspect of the human condition, deeply instilled in human life. It is through belonging, particularly in familial, love and friendship connections, that individuals are able to discover their true identities and find life more fulfilling. Belonging has the power to provide individuals with an unsurpassed sense of security, comfort and contentment. 

Relationships constitute as one of the strongest affinities that a human can find in life. It is the bonds of family, the love of relationships and the union of friendships that provide individuals with a sense of belonging, providing them with strength in times of need as well as allowing their identity to flourish. The variety of positive effects 
that a sense of belonging within a relationship ascertain are explored within William Shakespeare’s play, As You Like It, the 2006 German Film The Lives of Others and Kath Walker’s poem, Then and Now.

As You Like It is a 16th Century pastoral comedy that explores as well as mocks the human indelible need to belong. Shakespeare juxtaposes through hyperbolic characterisation the gender-specific views of love. Orlando embodies the male superficial view of love, presented as deeply obsessed with Rosalind, even his love poems adorned on trees can “neither rime nor reason can express how much” he loves her. Contrastingly, Rosalind displays a different perspective on love. She assumes the role to quash the false notions of love, particularly those that suggest that the real approach to love is assuming the inflated Petrarchan view of love, which Shakespeare humorously ridicules through Orlando’s poetry. It is undeniable that her deeper understanding of love relates to her gender. She claims, “men have died from time to time, and worms have eaten them, but not for love.” Her union of four couples in marriage and counselling of Orlando in disguise demonstrate her want for everyone to belong together. Her view of love is of a transformative experience that will help all identify themselves and find their place in the world. It is through the representation of these juxtaposed characters that Shakespeare portrays that the union of individuals in love is an important aspect in life, providing them with an unsurpassed sense of security and comfort. 

The German 2006 film, The Lives of Others also uses the relationship of a couple to portray the positive connotations that belonging can produce. Gerd Weisler is a Stasi agent assigned to spy on a playwright, Georg Dreyman and his girlfriend Christa-Marie. The juxtaposition of settings between Dreyman’s apartment and Weisler’s life embodies the disparities between the two lifestyles. Weisler resides in an unfurnished, grey and dark room watching the couples for hours upon end, whereas the couple live in an apartment, furnished with paintings and filled with warm colours of browns and oranges. The couple find familiarity and security here, belonging to each other contently within their apartment. This is heavily divergent of the life of Weisler, who although belongs loyally to the state, feels empty and chooses to dwell so obsessively in a vacant, dark place. The incessant contrast seeks to emphasize Weisler’s emptiness and isolation, as he lacks any true and fulfilling human relationship in his life.

In the Lives of Others, Weisler steals and reads a Bertolt Brecht play. This is heavily symbolic of Weisler’s detachment from his state. Brecht was a Marxist playwright and Weisler’s reading of the play is heavily representative of his revelation that East Berlin was not being run under the socialist regime it has advocated, and his subsequent disloyalty towards it. The lighting of the movie complements this, as when Weisler is reading the Brecht play, his face is illuminated to the left side, whereas the right side remains darkened. The dark light represents the pull of his government, who he previously held loyalty to, whereas the light represents his new way of seeing the world. The new affinity is clearly positive and enlightening as Weisler recognises the power of love within the couple, which essentially change his view of the world and urge him to better himself. It is clear through Weisler’s actions to protect their relationship that he recognises how integral the connection the couple share is. 

As You Like It also delves into the notion of familial belonging and the positive aspects of loyalty and security that it bestows, particularly through the cousins Rosalind and Celia, who feel a connection “dearer than the natural bond of sisters.” They flee the court together, undertaking false identities. Rosalind assumes the identify of Ganymede, humorously alluding to the Trojan prince in Greek mythology who was greatly associated with homoerotic connotations that are similarly ever present in As you like it, as the audience are never made aware of whether Orlando is aware of Ganymede’s true female identity. Celia adopts the character of Aliena, insinuating her “alien” status of not belonging. It is through their going, “in content, to liberty and not to banishment” in the magical, liberal forest that they find their true selves. Their shared journey reaffirms the paramount role that relationships provide to ultimately help individual find contentment within life. 

The notion that contentment is derived from belonging is further explored in Kath Walkers poem, Then and Now. Walker explores the inextricable relationships shared between the Aboriginal communities and how the destruction of these connections has negatively impacted upon their lives. Her consistent use of personal pronouns, “I see no more of my tribe of old” emphasizes the personal, spiritual and elaborate relationship shared between the Aboriginal tribes. Walker explores through negative personification, “grinding tram and hissing train” how her sense of belonging has been ripped away from her by the “White man” world. 

“No more boomerang, no more play about, no more the old ways.” The repetition here of negatives intensifies the reminiscent tone, recalling aspects of the Indigenous culture that had created such a sense of affinity to their community and culture. “Better when I only had a dillybag, better when I had nothing but happiness.” These final, repetitive sentences emphasise Walker’s feeling of solidarity with her traditional society and ancestors and how their connections provided all the contentment she needed in life. Furthermore, she dismisses the need for materialistic belonging, preferring instead the much more fulfilling sense that is achieved through personal relationships.  Walker reiterates how belonging to her traditional culture and society is crucial to her sense of self, proving the belonging identified in relationships has the ability to permeate as a complex and personal notion to individuals and communities. 

In As You Like It, Shakespeare also examines the notion of belonging in relation to one’s “home” or environment, achieved through the juxtaposition of the court and the Forest of Arden. This is embodied through Duke Senior, usurped by his younger brother, Duke Frederick, essentially robbed of his proper position in the court and banished to the Forest of Arden, religiously alluding to the Garden of Eden. Ultimately, the Forest of Arden has similar attributes, of a magical and transformative setting. Duke Senior lives here temporarily, where he is “more free from peril.” Although the Duke claims to prefer the forest dwelling to the “painted pomp” of court life, it is evident to the audience and to the Duke that his rightful place is as the ruler of the Dukedom. When Duke Frederick becomes a follower of a religious man, Duke Senior fairly reattains his power and place as the rightful ruler of the court. However a valuable lesson is portrayed, as he proclaims “mean time, forget this new fall’n dignity” and allows celebration in the midst of the forest for the marriages, following by an eventual transgression to the court. Although he has reassumed his true place and throne, where he belongs, he has learnt the lesson to maintain balance. Hence, through the Duke’s liberation in exile and subsequent isolation from his rightful place, he found where he was comfortable – to dwell in the Forest of Arden leisurely as well as to call the court his “home.” The complicated journey Duke Senior had to undertake to recognise the need for him to balance communities and environments to find his true identity.

One of the strongest affinities one can find is within relationships and communities as it is through these connections that individuals are able to attain a true sense of self, feel secure and comfortable, and ultimately find life more fulfilling. Belonging is often a driving force in individuals lives and is the foundation of many others, providing an unparalleled form of contentment within life. 

Peter Skrzynecki’s poem “Migrant Hostel” tells the story of thousands of migrants coming to Australia after World War II. His poem describes the displacement and alienation these migrants felt. As a migrant himself Skrzynecki reflects on the feeling of being in a new country not knowing anyone, not speaking the language and not knowing what was going to happen next. He describes the alienation and the sense of not belonging that migrants feel when first coming to a new country.

“Comings and goings/ newcomers/ busloads sudden departures”.  This list of vocabulary is associated with the transitory environments which thousands of migrants lived in after the Second World War. Skrzynecki uses this technique of a list to convey a sense of dislocation by the migrants. He uses words such as “comings and goings” to describe the uncertainty of their lives. These words are contrasting and suggest that there is no sense of permanence and that the hostel is a temporary environment.

“like a homing pigeon circling to get its bearings” is a simile used by Skrzynecki to create the sense of disorientation migrants first experience upon arrival at the hostel. As they get their “bearings” they find others of the same nationality so that they do not feel so isolated and dislocated. With the words “Years and place names/ recognised by accents” Skrzynecki conveys how the migrants affiliate themselves by identifying others from their own country. As soon as they form an association through shared nationality they were “partitioned off at night/ by memories of hunger and hate”. This metaphor represents the way thousands of migrants shared living quarters, no matter what prejudices existed between the different nationalities. “Memories of hunger and hate” is alliteration which describes the hostility between nationalities, though they are all “hungry” for the one thing – a new life in Australia where they hope they can live without fear.

“We lived like birds of passage - /Always sensing a change/ in the weather” Skrzynecki uses this simile to convey the similarities between the migrants’ situation and the pattern of migratory birds. It also refers to the way migrants are still in transit as everything is changing and they are being constantly moved around.

The word “barrier” in stanza four has a negative connotation and conveys how the migrants were limited in what they could do. “Needing its sanction” is metaphorical for assimilation and how migrants felt that they needed permission to live in Australia. “Sealed off the highway” also gives a negative connotation as “sealed off” refers to being excluded or locked up and in “Migrant Hostel” the migrants are being excluded from society by the “barrier” and the “highway” of life is just out of reach. “As it rose and fell like a finger/ pointed in reprimand or shame” is a simile for formal correction, and gives the sense that migrants did not have confidence because they spoke no English, which is also their “shame”. “To pass in and out of lives/That had only begun/Or were dying” is an ambiguous statement. There is a sense of hope and freedom being offered as “only begun” refers to how life in this new country was only just starting, but their lives were “dying” because as migrants they were expected to drop their “cultural baggage” and take up the “Australian way of life”, thus killing their old traditions, values, beliefs and culture. 

Armin Greder’s The Island is a picture book that explores the negative concepts of ‘belonging’ through instances of alienation and judgement. The text presents symbols and metaphors that can be applied to universal social issues, particularly the migrant experience. Although the tone of the text is ultimately pessimistic, there are suggestions of Christian ideals such as sharing, caring for the less fortunate and having a clear conscious. The text also not only discusses an outsider’s perspective of not belonging, but also the negative aspects of belonging to a group or community.
The page following the book’s title depicts a scene at sea. The whole image is washed with a dark blue from the sky to the ocean, and the crashing waves convey a menacing journey has taken place. At the bottom of the page, if one looks closely, it is evident that the bottom of the wooden raft has been drawn but blends into the rest of the image. This inclusion of the raft changes the perspective of the image as the responder is now been positioned as if they were looking out from the raft, the place of the Man. An immediate bond has now been formed between the responder and the man, and for the rest of the text we continue to sympathise with him.
The angry mob of Islanders drawn on the following pages when the Man arrives, are incredibly threatening as they are large, dark and armed. Not only is their physical presence intimidating, but their attitudes towards the unassuming Man are prejudiced and hostile. They say things like “I’m sure he wouldn’t like it here, so far away from his own kind,” to excuse themselves from responsibility and basic human compassion. Only one member of the mob, the Fisherman, presents a (merely) positive proposal by stating, “If we send him back, it will be the death of him and I don’t want that on my conscious”. Following this, the Islanders take the Man in under the lowest conditions.
Throughout the book the Man never assimilates into the Island’s society but shows a desire to belong to them when he leaves the dilapidated goat pen, to walk into town in search of basic needs such as food. The Islanders react aggressively, “the people grabbed him roughly and screamed at him” and the negative experiences continue. The only voice of reason is again the Fisherman as he says “We can’t ignore him now that he is among us. We must help him”. But instead, the Islanders cannot bring themselves to accept this unknown man and march him back to sea. Not only do they discard the Man back into the perilous ocean, but they also punish the Fisherman by burning his boat because they believed his desire to help the Man brought threat to their community. The end of the text concludes with the Islanders building a fort and shooting down even birds so no one can disturb them again. 
This text presents the challenges an outsider can face in the attempt to belong to a group or community, as well as the consequences a member can receive when they use their individual voice to disagree with the group. By suggesting humane treatment towards the isolated Man, the Fisherman became alienated himself. The xenophobic community of the Islanders symbolises the undesirable ramifications of unacceptance and intolerance.