AOS essay by Joshua Quealy
“Journeys always change the people involved” as they are voyages of discovery and maturation that ultimately lead to greater self understanding, self-confidence and self-worth.  The physical relocation of the protagonist often acts as a catalyst which invariably leads to the inner journey; a spiritual pilgrimage to self-actualisation which results in a greater understanding not only of the self, but of the world.  “Growth is the only evidence of life” (John Newman) and this momentous journey to self-awareness is reflected in Sally Morgan’s autobiography My Place (1987), the film Mona Lisa Smile (2003) directed by Mike Newell and the feature article “Cat Stevens, Two Lives” (Australian Women’s Weekly May 2002) written by William Langley through techniques such as....  

My Place is an anecdotal and reflective autobiography that undoubtedly represents the concept of inner journeys. It documents Sally Morgan’s growth and transformation from ambiguity regarding her cultural background to the discovery of her Aboriginal heritage as “What had begun as a tentative search for knowledge had grown into a spiritual and emotional pilgrimage.  We had an Aboriginal consciousness now, and were proud of it”. Morgan’s bildungsroman traces her spiritual, physical and emotional development from childhood to maturation.  Her journey metamorphosed from one of silence, metaphorically speaking to one of cultural immersion and discovery evident through reflective language in her trip to Corunna Downs in Chapter 28: “How deprived we would have been if we had been willing to let things stay as they are.  We would never have known our place”.  Here,  Sally emphasises how “journeys always change the people involved” evident in her emancipation from society’s constraints after being “labelled dumb by the stupid, boring test” into her actualisation into an Aboriginal that is “going to stand up and be counted” (Chapter 32: The Bird Call. )

Moreover, Morgan implements many language techniques to reveal how “growth demands a temporary surrender of security” (Gail Sheehy) on her inner journey from a naive “Indian” to gaining a distinct understanding of her culture and heritage.  The presence of colloquial and idiomatic language such as “mongrels”, “old blackfellas” and “boongs” emphasises the social stigma attached to being Aboriginal and its negative connotations.  Furthermore, one thematic concern Sally puts forward in her text is the loss of language.  She describes Nan when talking about her past how “her language had changed.  It was like she was back there, reliving everything”. This adds meaning to her journey by utilising language of concealment as a source of pain such as when Nan exclaims “I’m taking my secrets to the grave”.  Here, the responder also undertakes a journey towards a greater understanding of the way Anglo-Europeans impacted on Australia’s Aboriginal history through the Stolen Generation, making it a political work. 

Finally, Sally’s use of symbolism is evident through the bird call in Chapter 32 when Jill exclaims, “It was a weird sound, like a bird call, only it wasn’t”. Such meaningful moments “may not arrive, not with a fanfare of trumpets, but with the chirp of a bird” (Christopher Hansard, The Tibetan Art of Positive Thinking, 2003). This emphasises how her journey had brought her to a greater understanding of herself and acceptance of herself and her family.  

In contrast to My Place, the film Mona Lisa Smile explores the journey of Katherine Watson (Julia Roberts) as she overcomes what appear to be unsurmountable obstacles necessary for her development and self-actualisation.  She is an art history teacher who has taken a job at Wellesley College, a highly prestigious female school. She leaves the “ordinary world” as postulated by Christopher Vogler in “The Hero’s Journey” to voyage on an inner journey into the unknown.   Long-shot camera angles are used to juxtapose the individual, Watson, against the conservative and indoctrinating College and this is evident through the voiceover which states, “Katherine Watson didn’t come to Wellesley to fit in.  She came to make a difference”. This underpins Watson’s position on her journey from being an observer to being a traveller. Lighting is used to exemplify her transformation from the dark, depressing lecture rooms to the vibrant outdoor colours of her private art room, showing how she has transformed from ignorance to a greater understanding of the world through different learning experiences. Associations are drawn to Sally Morgan and her transformation as she states, “we had a sense of belonging now”. 
 
 Through her interaction with the students, she acts as a catalyst in their transformational journeys by challenging the social conventions and mores of the 1950’s. She states, “A woman does not need a girdle to set her free” to educate her indoctrinated students that personal and career satisfaction should be a priority juxtaposed to marriage. Newell further emphasises her journey through cinematographic devices. He portrays the start of her journey on a train with many passengers and in the denouement, she is a lone traveller as “independence enables the soul to grow and your life to become rewarding” (Christopher Hansard).  This emphasises how journeys are always learning experiences that change the people involved whether consciously or unconsciously.

 Another text that explores an individual’s inner journey is the feature article entitled “Cat Stevens, Two Lives”.  William Langley explores the life of the legendary rock star Cat Stevens through his transformation to a faithful adherent of Islam made apparent by the by line which exclaims, “Cat Stevens turned his back on pop success and gave his life to Islam”.  
 From the onset Langley uses descriptive language to describe Steven’s appearance.  He is “swathed in white cotton robes” is symbolic of spiritual rebirth on his journey to becoming a Muslim.  Rhetorical questions such as “Why is my life so empty?  What am I doing here?” emphasise his inner journey for a sense of understanding and place, similar to that of Sally Morgan.  

 “The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step” (Chinese proverb) and this catalyst for his journey was the Koran, a gift from his brother in 1976.  It provided a “key to serenity” and was a “code by which he could live his life”, sparking his spiritual pilgrimage to becoming Yusuf Islam. His inner journey is evident through his music and its changing perspectives.  “The tone of Stevens’ music had changed remarkably” as it was now dedicated to “sophisticated niche audiences of aspiration”. Finally, iconic visuals of his singing career are juxtaposed with his present appearance as a Muslim, to emphasise his journey as a vehicle of self-awareness and identity as “Yusuf and Cat…just don’t expect to see them on stage together”.  

 Therefore, journeys provide a new perspective that challenge and reward in proportionate quantities as “Life is a journey! It is not the beginning or the end that matters; it is the adventure that lies in-between”.  
Inner journey
All of life is a journey. All Journeys have a beginning and an end. All the outcomes that are associated with journey are the results of the choices that we make in out daily lives, good or bad that have to be lives with. In the Macquarie dictionary journey is defined as: - The exploration into one’s self. It offers growth & development through emotional pilgrimage and provides new insights for the mind and spirit. Throughout this essay I will be referring to our prescribed text ‘Life is Beautiful’ by Roberto Benigini, an image about reconciliation shaping our future titled, ‘The roads we choose’. And a poem titled ‘The Road not taken’ by Robert Frost. 

Although the film ‘Life is Beautiful’ is not a film that I usually see, I much rather the films that are made in Hollywood. But this movie has made me think. This movie really coveys the true meaning of inner journey, to me journey really means to travel, but the inner journey involves the exploration of the self, their mind and spirit. 

The poem ‘The Road not taken’ by Robert frost was written in 1914 when frost went to visit his family friends in England. The poem uses simple languages so explore complex ideas and issues, the concept of inner journey was used to metaphorically represent the basic choices in life that all people face regardless of time or place. Frost has used the traditional form of poetry to present an incident in his life ‘Two roads diverge in a yellow wood. And sorry I could not travel both’ where a decision has had to be made on which path to choose in his life.

In the film ‘Life is Beautiful’ Guido (the main character) dose not have a choice he is forces to attend the concentration camp although it seems that he is not afraid, he is trying to keep a brave face for his son Joshua and trying to make this experience into a fun game. ‘Life is Beautiful’ revolves around four characters: - Guido, Dora, Joshua and Dr Lessing but it mainly revolves around Guido and his inner journey from an innocent, carefree existence to life. 

Guido character is established right from the beginning, by his cheeky face and his hand and body movement. Then later on in the film Guido is forced to go to war and to fight for his country. Guido is very resourceful and a great opportunist. He is always ready to take advantage of any situation and use it to the benefit his aims at that particular moment. Guido’s inner journey could be seen to be directed by the events that occur in the film. But Guido’s cleverness in using situations for his own end implies that he is an individual who is challenged and inspirited by the situation that he find himself in. For example: - when Dora falls into his arms, when he is crashes into her in the streets and meets her with a friend.

In the camp, Guido is not only concerned to protect Joshua, he also tries to reassure Dora that everything is ok by playing her favourite song over the loud speaker Guido also lets Dora hear Joshua’s voice as another reassures that they are both still alive. So much of Guido’s inner journey involves preserving the welfare of his family. It also has forced him to reconsider his views of the world and admit the reality of suffering and horror to this world of laughter and illusion.      

The  image about reconciliation shaping our future titled, ‘The roads we choose’ is an image that consist of two roads diverging in the centre, one road is brown the other is black and at either end of the picture there are two hand reach out for each other, each hand is aimed at one another this symbolises that the hands want to travel together on the path that they choose to take for any reason good or bad. Once you start to travel on one path it is difficult to turn back and change your direction of your future.
As we can see from the two related text talked about earlier its is seen that there are two paths that can be chosen to be explore but in the film ‘Life is Beautiful’ Guido doesn’t have a choice, Guido is forces to go to war, his forces to attend the concentration camp but nothing could be done to stop Guido and Joshua from going to war. I end in saying the inner journey involves the exploration of the self, their mind and spirit.    

A world full of divine beings, immense objects and spectacular nature. Coleridge’s Kubla Kan, centres on a pristine psychological journey. Written during the Romantic Movement, we admire Coleridge’s Hedonistic ideologies. As one continues through the poem, they begin to share the awe of the Kubla with his God-like identity created through great commands to create this ‘stately pleasure dome’ which is, metaphorically ‘measureless to man’ giving the responder an image to aspire and crave for creation. Yet all is not smooth in this exploration, for it would not be a true journey without conflict or obstacle, as writer’s block has unfortunately occurred. Through  overcoming this obstacle, we experience the beauty and power of music itself, receiving all its glory. Combined with the assonance and alliteration of ‘music loud and long I would build that dome in air’, Coleridge helps us to experience the moving musical qualities not only of his own melodic poetry but the beauty of the music that has so enchanted him. Coleridge’s ‘This Lime-tree Bower My Prison’ also demonstrates the process of reflection and self discovery through the power of imaginative journeys. With an initial bitter, petulant tone Coleridge claims he may ‘never more may meet again’ his friends, which is obviously exaggerated. However his love of nature is clear as his visual appeal lights up the sense with onomatopoeic resonance through ‘roaring dell, o’erwooded, narrow, deep and only speckled by the midday sun’. With a clear despise of the city, as he speaks of if as an image of confinement ‘in the great city pent’. Although Coleridge cannot remain remorse for much longer as he begins to enjoy the God filled realm with expansive images of ‘wide wide heaven’ and positioning of himself ‘a delight’ to be alone to mirror the suddenness of his awakening. There is a deep contrast in tone of awe to ones happiness signalling self-awareness or discovery. No longer is the lime tree bower a metaphoric ‘prison’ but instead affectionately ‘little’ which has ‘sooth’d me’. Coleridge’s perceptions are entirely changed, with lessons to be learnt that Nature is healing, soothing and offering much to be learnt from, all while still staying in the realm of physical impossibilities.

Victor Kelleher’s The Ivory Trail was written in 2001 and is filled with the vivid use of shadows and sunset to create an image of mystery and intrigue. We gleam the concept of journey paradoxically elaborated through darkness where ‘not all journeys have an ending’ ends, to symbolise that this journey is unique and dark, the missing full stop seems to suggest that a journey is never ending, merely a portal from the beginning of an end to the end of another beginning. The most important aspect of this superbly pictured cover page is the word in big bold capital letters ‘TRAIL’ for this is the key to many journeys. It suggests that not all journeys are easy to travel upon like a levelled road, they may have obstacles that require overcoming, obstacles that lead to a more profound understanding of yourself brought about by your reactions to the intensity of these difficulties. An understanding of yourself that you most certainly did not before you undertook the journey.

As one enters the world of Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland, written during the Victorian period, one sees this creative journey become a metaphoric journey for the process of a child becoming an adult, where learning is the key yet again! We are privy to these humanistic animals who incorporate their own rules into almost every situation. I mean even the royal court is a metaphoric living deck of cards for goodness sake! Alice's has to learn the rules of each new encounter such as a terribly ridiculous mad hatters party where everything is absurd and the conversations do seem illogical ‘I see what I eat is the same thing as I eat what I see!', but in the end she must also retain a sense of justice and develop a sense of herself. However, the most inspiring message in this child’s story is that Alice learns what it is to become an adult by overcoming the tyrannical court system entrapping her in a seemingly hopeless situation. Yet even she is able to say ‘Who cares for you?’ in a world where almost everyone is out for themselves. Art begins to imitate life as everyday we see greater evidence that in our increasingly dog-eat-dog real world no-one seems to care for one another much anymore, and through this cleverly metaphoric story we see this idea of the author’s evidenced. This is most certainly another theme central to journeys that we must learn about life itself in order to learn about ourselves.

The book Expeditions, has an immense amount to represent about imaginative journeys, all within the depiction of its back cover. With the back cover blurb placed on top of scenic icy mountains, the only thing visible to is the tips of each mountain, blanketed with layer of clouds. However, juxtaposed to the side of the cover, is a mountain climber, standing tall and bright in yellow clothing. This is his journey, a journey where there is no civilisation, only him and his imagination. The depiction of his isolation represents freedom through a persons own journey, a journey where they learn about themselves, and accomplish things that normally wouldn’t happen, as seen by the climber alone on top of the mountain. The words in the blurb, which the reader is attracted to through the vectors of the mountain climber looking towards them, is listed with ‘fear, excitement, loneliness, bone-numbing cold, desperation’ expressing the extreme condition found in this place, emotions that the imagination can use and allow the reader to become one with the mountain climber. This book cover is powerful, harnessing the power of the imagination to allow the reader understand the feelings and, metaphoric ‘heavenly joy’ of the mountain climber, as we experience new emotions and feelings, which every individual should achieve on a journey. 

The Imaginative Journey combines the ability to envision; to see the potential; to create with our minds what we cannot at present see with our eyes with a sense of physical process: a beginning, an end and in between a succession of events and catalysts that are enlightening, transformative and deeply personal, resulting in a heightened perspective and broadened understanding of the world and ourselves. S.T. Coleridge’s This Lime Tree Bower My Prison and Kubla Khan, David Fincher’s Fight Club, Paul Gauguin’s Vision After The Sermon and Margaret Atwood’s Journey to the Interior all explore the nature of the imaginative journey as a process of enlightenment and transformation, resulting in a broadened understanding of the world and the individual.

              This Lime Tree Bower My Prison examines the ability of the imagination to explore worlds of inspiration and speculation. Coleridge, a Romantic poet placed emphasis on the imagination as a gateway to transcendent experience and spiritual truth. The use of juxtaposition in the title: “lime tree” versus “prison” creates a regretful tone, establishing a duality that enables Coleridge to embark on his journey. His visions of the ‘Roaring Dell’ are created through auditory imagery, enabling the responder to hear the world he has created. His use of personification: “yellow leaves ne’re tremble in the gale” creates an image of energy and vitality within nature, elevating nature as a divine being and creating an understanding that “nature ne’re deserts the wise and pure”.

Coleridge overcomes the constraints of the physical world; becoming the “solitary humble bee/sings in the flower” he experiences a greater understanding of the world and himself. He metaphorically links the sinking orb, the kindling ocean and the yellow light through the symbol of fire, creating an image of unity within nature and further establishing a sense of the divine at work. At the end of the last stanza Coleridge states: “No sound is dissonant that tells of life”, a far cry from the regretful tone of the first stanza. The result of Coleridge’s imaginative journey is a transformation, an appreciation of the bower derived from an appreciation of love, beauty and nature: “have I not marked much that has soothed me” and an understanding that although at times we may be physically incapacitated, we are still free to embark on imaginative journeys to worlds of imagination, speculation and inspiration. 

Coleridge’s Kubla Khan explores the power of the imagination to create. In an opium-induced vision Coleridge looked inwards to produce a visionary expression of his hopes, fears and creativity. Coleridge’s use of an elevated register: use of adjectives such as “stately”, “decree” and “sacred” create regal images of Xanadu, reflecting the divine nature of Coleridge’s vision. Similarly to This Lime Tree Bower My Prison his use of personification: “As if this earth in fast, thick, pants were breathing” creates an image of energy and vitality within nature, further establishing a sense of the divine at work. Coleridge’s images of the poet: “his flashing eyes, his floating hair” are evidence of his understanding of the power of the poet to act as a vessel for the spiritual awakening of humankind. Coleridge gains a greater understanding of the world and himself as a result of his imaginative journey in Kubla Khan. 

          David Ficher’s Fight Club examines the postmodern concept that everyone’s view of reality is different through the eyes of schizophrenic narrator Jack and his relationship with his alter ego Tyler Durden. In Jack’s words: “Is Tyler my bad dream, or am I his?” Ironically, Tyler really is Jack’s dreams. In Tyler’s words: “All the ways you wish you could be, that’s me…I am smart, capable, and most importantly, I am free in all the ways you are not.”

           The physical journey that Jack and Tyler embark on is a metaphor for the true nature of their journey-imaginative. Fincher’s use of film techniques explores the relationship that develops between Jack and Tyler. Low angle shots represent Tyler’s dominance over Jack, whereas in contrast Jack’s dependent and weak personality is represented through high angle shots. Tyler’s commanding and wild personality is costumed in commanding and wild clothes: fur coats, colorful t-shirts and a lack of clothing throughout many scenes in the film. In contrast Jack’s self-conscious and weak character is costumed in neutral colors: black pants, white shirts and less attention seeking pieces. Wipe editing represents the relationship between each scene, reflecting the nature of the imaginative journey as an ongoing process of transformation and enlightenment, resulting in a broadened understanding of the world and the individual.

          As Jack embarks on a journey using Tyler as a vessel, he demonstrates the ability of the imagination to challenge as Tyler challenges Jack’s way of life. The result of Jack’s journey is the development of a new philosophy, an expression of his innermost desires and the understanding he has experienced. “No fear. No distractions. The ability to let that which does not matter, truly slide.” Like Coleridge transforming his prison to paradise, Jack transforms his life. He realizes he does not need Tyler to live for him; Tyler has merely shown him the way. Both Coleridge and Jack broaden their understanding of the world and themselves as a result of their imaginative journeys. 

                   Paul Gauguin’s Vision After The Sermon explores the relationship between reality and illusion and the impacts they have on the imaginative journey. His work marks the shift from impressionism to symbolism, combining the real and the imagined without making any distinction between the two. By not varying his tone, using vivid color and limited shadow Gauguin gives his imagined figures-Jacob and the Angel the same force and presence as the peasants to whom they appear. His use of the red background as a non-naturalistic setting is the only clue that what we view is a vision. Gauguin’s work blurs the boundaries on illusion and reality and the fine-line relationship that exists between the two, creating an understanding that they are equally as powerful and fundamental to our understanding of the world and ourselves. 

     Margaret Atwood’s Journey to the Interior from the 2004 stimulus booklet examines our struggle to discover the true nature of self. Like Coleridge she recognizes the influence of nature and its appreciation upon our lives and in doing so transforms her limits to the achievable. Her use of free verse reflects the spontaneity of the journey. Her use of metaphor: “the hills as endless as prairies” symbolic of the vastness of the mind and our difficulty in seeking clarity in our own consciousness, as often we “move surrounded by a tangle of branches”. Atwood struggles to gain direction in Journey to the Interior. Like Jack she recognizes that “a compass is useless”, as direction must come from within. She realizes “that there are no destinations apart from this”, recognizing that the interior journey is fundamental to all journeys as explored in This Lime Tree Bower My Prison, Kubla Khan, Fight Club, Vision After the Sermon and Journey to the Interior, all of which result in a broadened understanding of the world and the individual.   

           Coleridge’s This Lime Tree Bower My Prison and Kubla Khan, David Fincher’s Fight Club, Paul Gauguin’s Vision After The Sermon and Margaret Atwood’s Journey to the Interior all explore the nature of the imaginative journey as a process of enlightenment and transformation, resulting in a broadened understanding of the world and the individual.   

Film                    Aidan Chan

Man On Fire was directed by Tony Scott, in 2004. It is licensed by Twentieth Century Fox. It’s a film staring Denzel Washington, who plays John Creasy, an ex CIA operative. Past experiences have left Creasy in a state of inner turmoil, which has resulted in him turning to alcohol abuse and disconnecting from emotion. He is isolated emotionally. Creasy is hired by a wealthy Mexican family to be their bodyguard. His main assignment is to protect the nine year old daughter of the family, Pita Ramos. Pita is played by Dakota Fanning. 

The film is relates to inner journeys, because it shows how a person can change emotionally, so dramatically. Creasy’s inner journey began after he met and developed a friendship with Pita. 

Pita Ramos is the catalyst for Creasy’s inner journey. At first, Pita tries to create a friendship with Creasy, but he doesn’t want to become emotionally attached to her, so he tells her he is not paid to be her friend. Creasy soon gives in and they create a strong friendship. This is how Creasy’s inner journey is initiated. 
When Pita is kidnapped, Creasy is fuelled by revenge. 

The director, Tony Scott, uses various visual techniques to show Creasy’s inner journey. In the beginning, he establishes that Creasy is in a state of turmoil, by making the scene dull and by using flashes of images to create a sense of chaos. During these flashes, Creasy also plays with a gun, which shows that he has links to violence. There is no dialogue in this scene. The music is fast paced rock, which creates tension in the scene. The visual techniques used convey Creasy’s state of mind at the time. 
In another scene in the kitchen, we can see the development of Creasy’s inner journey through the use of dialogue and visual techniques. Pita is doing her history homework and Creasy is helping her. In this scene, Pita makes a joke which makes Creasy smile. She sees this and points out that he is smiling, but he won’t admit it and they start to have a playful argument, where Creasy denies having smiled at all. 
“What’s a concubine...?” 
“Do you feel sorry for the husband?” 
“Yeah can you imagine my mum multiplied by a thousand? Creasy you’re smiling“
“What?”
“You were smiling”
“No I’m not” 
“You were”
“No I was not”
“Not now but you were“
“No you were smiling”
“You were” 
“When?” 

The camera shots used are an important tool of communication in this scene. The close ups of Creasy’s face show that he is at a stage in his inner journey where he is comfortable showing his emotions. The effect of the close ups make the audience excited, because they want to see him smile. There is another significant point in the movie where we see the impact of Pita’s relationship on Creasy’s inner journey. In this particular scene, Creasy is training Pita to swim faster. The choice of scenery is different, it’s sunny, and they are outside. Scott repeats the technique of using flashing images like the scenes when Creasy was drinking. Only this time, it does not have the same effect. By using colourful and bright images of the pool, instead of dull images of Creasy drinking with no dialogue, Scott makes the audience feel a sense of well being and happiness. Through the above visual techniques, Scott has made Creasy’s inner journey apparent. 

In both Cosi and Man On Fire the main characters’ inner journey is prompted by the interaction with others. Lewis’ inner journey is initiated by the mental patients. By the end of the play, Lewis sees things differently. For example, in the beginning of the play Lewis says, “Why can’t I ever say no? Just leave. They’re mad. It’s madness.” At the end of the play, Lewis actually defends the patients when Nick is mocking them. “What are you on about? Too much time with the loonies, Lewis?” This led to Lewis hitting Nick, ending their friendship. For Creasy, interaction with Pita allowed him to reconnect to the world emotionally. In the beginning of the film, Creasy had nothing to live for and had an alcohol problem. After becoming friends with Pita, he stops drinking and is able to become more open. At the end of the film, the result of the inner journey Creasy takes is that he trades his life for Pita’s, compared to the beginning when he has nothing to live for and only thinks of himself. 

The differences between Cosi and Man On Fire are the text types. Cosi is written as a play, which relies on dialogue. Man On Fire is a film and uses visual techniques as well as dialogue to show the inner journey. In Man On Fire the main focus of the inner journey is Creasy, while in Cosi the inner journey can be seen in many of the characters. An example of this would be the characters Julie and Henry. Julie quits drugs and Henry talks more and expresses how he feels. 

The poem, The Road Not Taken by Robert Frost is about a protagonist who comes to a fork in a road and must decide which road to take. The road and the fork are metaphors for life’s inner journeys and the choices we must make. This is similar to Creasy, because he made the choice to become friends with Pita and this created a strong emotional bond between them. As a result of this when she is kidnapped, he is told that Pita is dead. Creasy takes the road less travelled and displays strong emotions - anger, concern, love and revenge. If he had chosen not to become emotionally attached to Pita, he would have continued on his familiar road, of alcohol and isolation. 

Man On Fire is a good example of how the choices we make effects our inner journeys so strongly. The techniques Scott has used are effective in showing the inner journey Creasy has undergone. In doing so he has made it clear for the audience to experience the development and significance of Creasy’s inner journey.

Inner Journeys: Essay


Texts may show us that the world of inner journeys involves unexpected encounters. To what extend do the texts you have studies support this idea?
In your response, refer to your prescribed text, and at least ONE other related text of your own choosing.


Inner journeys is the exploration of ones self as the individual reviews their growth and development with experiences. These experiences not only challenge them but inspire them to be the people they are today. Life is full of surprises. You never know what you will be confronted by. When you are, you must deal with it in the best possible way and learn from your mistakes. Inner journeys results in unexpected encounters because life itself is unexpected and every day we learn something new, not only about ourselves but also about life. The two related texts that I will discuss is ‘Cosi Fan Tutti’ and an article written by Mary Morris called ‘Excess Baggage’


Cosi Fan Tutti was written in the early 90’s by Luis Nowra, however the play is based in 1971. During this time, Australia was experiencing the social and political changes of the Cold War and the Vietnam War posing a threat to Australia. People at the time are outraged and scared, therefore protests were being held and women at the time were marching for women’s rights and equality. However the play mainly focuses on mentally ill patients, which were institutionalised. This was considered at the time the best treatment for them. Furthermore these patients were being drugged. The main issues within the play are obsession, disillusionment, self-identity, struggle, triumph and mental illness.

The play begins in a burnt out theatre. The main character is Lewis. Lewis is a university graduate, good looking, and naïve, inexperienced and doesn’t have a strong confidence. He is mainly motivated for the money stating “I need the money” [Act one, scene one, page 1]. He works with the mentally ill patients and the problem he has with them easily disheartens him. 

As the play goes on there is a slow change in the way that Lewis interacts with the patients. He changes as a person and grows closer to them instead of being so distant. He starts yo have more of a commitment to do the play than what he did before which clearly is being shown when Lewis refuses to allow Henry to walk out of the show “Im not going to let you walk out on us! You’ll have to hit me to get out” [Act one, scene 4, page 49]. Lewis is dedicated to keep everyone there and more determined to finish of the play. He considers himself apart of the group now. He also realises that helping the patients is an ambition he must follow. This is an unexpected encounter because in the beginning of the play, Lewis was not so keen on teaching these people. He was not confident and was not committed to doing it. He was only in it for the money. His perceptions have changed from knowing these people more and is unexpected because he realises that these people are more than mental they are talented in their own ways. Lewis did not expect to deal with characters like Roy and Doug in the beginning. This was an inner journey for him because he had to overcome obstacles with people in the institute

With the growth of Lewis character he chooses the play over Lucy and the moratorium “Im not going to let them down” [Acts two, scene 2, page 70]. This shows that Lewis commits himself even more to practicing the play rather than spending time with his own girlfriend. This shows an example of how inner journeys result in unexpected encounters because Lewis never really cared about the cast in the beginning and never cared about the play as much as he does now. As the play goes on he learns more about these people and sees that these people need help. He sees that these people have talents and want to be helped instead of being drugged all the time by the institution.

Lewis gains more maturity through his interaction with the mentally ill patients and has learnt to look more than the stereotypes of people and look beyond peoples imperfections. He recognises the individuals from within and not what others think of them.

He helps these people by helping them overcome their fears and obstacles that make the patients mentally ill. And most of the cast are doing Cosi to open up out of their shells and become successful. The cast did not really enjoy it at the start but their perceptions of getting to know the play more has changed and towards the end enjoy it. This is seen through Julie and Ruth. This is seen when Julie expresses her feelings towards Lewis that she really likes to do the play and that the play gives her something to think about other than drugs. “Cosi gives me something to think about, something to do…Im happy coming to this burnt out theatre” [Act one, scene 4, page 36]. This shows the concept of inner journeys as an unexpected encounter because Julie has always been so drug dependant and saw drugs as satisfying her and as a need. As she becomes apart of the play her views change and enjoys the play more than thinking about drugs. She grows as a person to think outside the box and thinks positively. This all happens for Julie unexpectedly as she faces one of the most important things in her life and experiences the concept of inner journey.

Ruth also overcomes her obsessive compulsive disorder from doing Cosi. This is evident towards the end of the play when the play is being finished and Ruth starts obsessing about how many steps she should of take but Lewis reassures her “You were fine, Ruth. Fine” [Act two, scene 5, page 85]. Ruth then puts this behind her and in the end becomes successful. She doesn’t think of herself as a mental patient but more of an actress. This is and inner journey as she encounter it all unexpectedly. She overcomes her barriers and knows that she should stop being so obsessive over small things and follow her head and her heart into doing things she’s good at.

Overall, within the play of Cosi Fan Tutti all of the characters face an inner journey unexpectedly. They overcome barriers that they thought of never overcoming because they were people that never really had a good life outside the mental institution and never had dreams of doing such things within life. It also changes them all in a positive way and experience the unexpected of performing a play. A play that has made them all stronger and confident about themselves.

In my second related text excess baggage it is a written text and is in the form of an article. Excess baggage is implying to, too many thoughts, encountering some personal problems or maybe going through an emotional time. Mary is a woman who tells us about her journey and experiences in the past. As she travels to Peru to see her friend Carol she carries a lot of excess baggage with her, hence she is carrying with herself a lot of emotions “Along with heavy bags I carried a heavy heart” [paragraph one, line 11]. She carried a heavy heart because of the break up of her relationship which makes her lack confidence and is a barrier for her to try and move from. Her carrying a heavy heart is unexpected because she always thought that her relationship with her ex boyfriend was going to last for a long time, but in the end it turned the other way around.

Throughout the story, Mary encounters difficulties to cope with the break up of her long term relationship she doesn’t feel confident about herself and with the idea of being lonely means that she will think about negative things. “My inner baggage- a desire to be taken care of, an endless search for love, and excessive needs – weighed me down” [paragraph 1, lines 12-14]. This shows an inner journey for her because she is still looking for that man to rely on, lacks in confidence and is weak because she needs someone to take care of her. This is an obstacle for Mary to overcome as life itself has journeys and challenges and needs to realise that she doesn’t need a man to keep her occupied.

 The turning point of the story and in her life was when she looses her baggage at the airline. “On the journey form Peru to Mexico the airlines lost my bags. What I had left were clothes on my back and a carry on with a pair of jeans t-shirt, a sweater. At first I was obsessed by my missing things, as if I’d lost part of myself” [Paragraph 5, line 1-7]. It symbolises the loss of not only her confidence but it feels like apart of her is missing. Loosing her luggage was unexpected because she had always carried her luggage around with her the whole journey. This is one of the biggest fears that she has had along the journey and is still trying to overcome the fact that she has not only lost her luggage but she has lost all the emotions that keep building up inside of her.

 She realises that the luggage is lighter and realises that she doesn’t need a man to rely on and that she can be alone and still be happy with her life. “I forgot about my luggage and all the other baggage I carried with me. I settled into the freedom that lightness brings” [paragraph 3, line 1-3]. Mary tries to move on and forget her past. This was a difficult thing for her to do although she manages to pull through this unexpected encounter. She never thought of herself in the beginning of moving on from her past, but experiences an inner journey that makes her a stronger person outside and within

 She moves on and forgets her past. In the end she learns that she can be a stronger woman by being independent. If she keeps replying on men and others she will never achieve anything in life. “What we bring with us as we forge ahead tells a lot about who we are. A large part of independence is learning to carry our own weight” [paragraph 9, line 1-4]. With this quote Mary becomes more independent and encounters the hardship of being independent. She never really expected to be all alone and learning to be independent because she was always a woman who relied on men and other people. This is why, this was a big challenge for her to overcome and to face such an unexpected encounter


 In conclusion life is full of journeys that people face and these journeys challenge them. The texts that I have discussed support the idea that the world of inner journeys involves unexpected encounters because most of these journeys are unexpected and force people to overcome obstacles and barriers within their lives.

The inner journey involves the exploration of the self through the catalyst of the human psyche, choice, or its physical counterpart. Within the journey, the individual is often confronted with experiences which challenge underlying assumptions of themselves, others and the world, resulting in a new perspective. 

Set in Fascist Italy during WWII, Roberto Bengini’s non-mimetic film, Life is Beautiful (LIB) chronicles the Orifice’s transformations, utilizing the backdrop of a concentration camp to canvas humanities ability to triumph in adversarial circumstances. John Donne’s 17th century holy sonnet, ‘Batter My Heart (BMH)’, explores the necessity of resilience in gaining Gods aggressive assistance to achieve salvation. Conversely, Shirley Geok-lin Lim’s post colonial prose extract, The Town Where Time Stands Still (TTWTSS) delves into the psyche of man, suggesting that it is the subconscious need for inner transformation which takes precedence over the baser motives of travel. 

Where Lim posits the lack of autonomy the individual has in charting the journey, Guido strives to control his within the chaos of Fascist Italy. His resilience in humour transforms fiction into reality, inspiring his son‘s inner journey; Joshua’s belief that the reason they were torn from their home, was to play a game to win a tank, is only possible due to his fathers resolve to protect him. The dichotomous meaning of the "game" created to shield Joshua is juxtaposed with the ironic parody of Guido’s translation of the German camp rules, highlighting the brutality of the situation while influencing positive growth in Joshua's inner metamorphosis. For Guido, the translation serves to mask the travesty of war and provide inner strength in his family whilst incarcerated. 

Like the persona in TTWTSS, Dora is similarly transformed by her ‘external geography’- Guido, depicted by Guido directing a gramophone playing Offenbach’s ’barcolle’ across the camp. As the orchestral music plays through the window, a panning POV shot travels to find Dora through the mist creating an effect that Guido is reaching out to her, despite the physical obstacles. When Dora hears the song, Begnini employs a close up frame of her face to chart the transition from morose to hopeful, mirroring the necessity for inner resilience, despite the uncertainty of the journey. Monochromatic tones of grey are employed around and on the train tracks leading to the camp, suggesting the malevolence of the journey, whilst Dora’s red dress becomes a personified motif of passion, love, humanity and hope in the midst of adversity. 

Begnini suggests that often what catalyses a change in perspective is unexpected. Noirsque elements such as obscuring mist convey the ambiguity of the journey as Guido wanders across the camp with a semi conscious Joshua in his arms. The clearing mist, as Guido looks upon the slaughtered prisoners confirms that his eyes have been opened to his new reality. It is at this stage that Guido realizes he is no longer a harlequin, rather a father who needs to protect what is dear to him. Begnini employs a medium shot as Guido backs away in horror, coupled with an uncomfortable silence to convey his shock. The fleeting visual of the corpses heightens the surreal quality of the scene, representing Guido’s struggle to comprehend the total disregard for human life, and forces the responder to reflect on their own journey in understanding the cruel realities of history.

Guido’s frivolity as conveyed by the vandalized lime green horse he uses at Dora’s engagement party to lure his ’principessa’ denotes his initial naivity. The juxtaposition of this and Nioresque elements such as steam, darkness, and Guido’s tattered rags when he is marched to his death, depict an inner metamorphosis. A close up shot of Guido winking at his son for the last time confronts Guido with the stark reality that his journey of sacrifice and transformation was complete, denotes his acceptance of the journey, and allows Begnini to explore the human ability to overcome obstacles. 

Unlike Guido in LIB, Donne’s self transformation is  self inficted and expected as Donne begs God to ’imprison him’ metaphorically inducing his spiritual journey to heaven. Immediacy for atonement is further accentuated through the metaphor of the kingdom under siege paralleling the poem; "Overthrow me, and bend your force to break blowe burn, and make me new‘. This paradox of salvation through alliterative destruction supports the metaphysical conceit paired with the cognitively violent representation of god as creator. This existential view is paired with a coupled harmony and violent sexual imagery, denoting the depth of passion in his argument; ’nor ever chaste, except you ravish me,’ With the exchange of fluid representing the 17th century concept of purity, Donne’s plea to be raped by god extends his choice for a spiritual journey to immortality. The poem extends a plea to god, although it is Donne’s choice to condemn himself which drives the spiritual journey with the prospect of immortality indicative of Donne’s divine transformation through the journey.   

Whereas LIB highlights the resilience of the human spirit, TTWTSS focuses on the autonomy of the psyche, employing a psychoanalytical framework to counter the existential argument that choice is at the heart of spiritual and emotional growth and development. The formal prose extract begins with a powerful metaphor positing that the individual subconsciously seeks a spiritual connection when traveling;  the hope to be “moved rather than to move.” She suggests that the physical jounrey can pre-empt inner transformation unknowingly “an external geography that will act on their internal psychology; the genii loci,’ acting like an 'irrisistable force' to change the inviduidal. Lim posits that it is not only the physical journey, but rather the individuals compulsion to change scenery, which catalyses inner growth over the baser motivations of travel. This is denoted through the use of soft words such as ‘search’ and ‘sometimes’ as opposed to the harsh words ‘profit’ and ‘pleasure.’

Lim suggests that the individual returns from a traveling journey ‘blessed and altered’, suggesting the importance of inner growth through the vehicle of  the physical journey; ‘the purer realm of travel.’Christian adjectives such as ’purer’ and ’blessed’ create a sense of sanctity with the ‘external geography’ emphasizing the post colonial concept; that the traveler on the journey and the location from which he has come will be enriched by the spirit of the place. It is the compulsion to travel which subconsciously engenders growth and development of the spirit.

For Benigni and Donne choice is the central determinant for inner transformation. Conversely, Lim employs psychoanalysis, positing that it is the subconscious compulsion, not choice, which is a catalyst for spiritual transcendence. Despite this, all three composers agree that inner growth is achievable through the vehicle of its physical counterpart. 




‘The journey, not the arrival, matters.’


  Journeys have been a source of fascination for composers for centuries. An inner journey is the emotional exploration of self that occurs as an individual deals with a new experience, resulting in personal growth and development. Ultimately, it is the journey and not the arrival that matters, and Sally Morgan’s My Place, ‘Journey to the Interior’ by Margaret Atwood, Ivan Sen’s film Beneath Clouds and Michelangelo Caravaggio’s painting St Francis Meditating have represented this to me in three ways. Firstly, the journey facilitates the overcoming of prejudice, and secondly, it is through the journey that an individual can develop relationships with others. Thirdly, these texts demonstrate that many journeys do not, in fact, have a destination, illustrating the importance of the journey above that of the arrival.

    Firstly, My Place and Beneath Clouds demonstrate that the journey matters more than the arrival because it facilitates the overcoming of prejudice. In Morgan‘s text, Arthur Corunna details the injustices Aborigines have suffered at the hands of the whites, describing how “half-caste” children such as himself were taken by the government to missions: “I clung to my mother and tried to sing them. I wanted them to die. I was too young”. The emotive, heartfelt and child-like language generates empathy, and the technique of direct speech creates realism. During his journey, Arthur develops a sense of racial pride, stating, “I’m proud of bein’ a blackfella”. He buys a farm in Mukinbudin, changes his name to ‘Corruna’ and establishes a place for himself as a successful Aboriginal farmer, overcoming adversity and demonstrating the way in which the journey facilitates the conquering of prejudice. In reading My Place, responders too learn to overcome prejudice. The text uses a lucent, confessional writing style to allow easy reading for a predominantly white audience, ensuring they are receptive to Morgan’s message. Morgan develops this intimacy in order for responders to empathise with her family and embark on their own journey to overcome prejudice. Similarly, responders to Beneath Clouds overcome prejudice during their journey. The constant close-ups on Vaughn and Lena generate sympathy, allowing viewers to share their journey and view the world from an Aboriginal perspective. The shots of road kill, such as the moth, cockatoo and fox, suggest that all Aborigines are road kill, suffering ill-treatment at the hands of the white Mercedes drivers. The progressively larger size of the road kill is also significant: the more one ventures, the greater the risk. Prejudice is made evident many times throughout the film: a white farmer calls Vaughn a “black bastard”, a derogatory term suggesting a lack of belonging, alluding the dislocation of Aborigines by whites. Vaughn comments that “all books are written by white fellas”, the hyperbole forcing viewers to realise the shortage of Aboriginal history. Vaughn too embarks on an inner journey to overcome prejudice. A bitter and hostile Aboriginal youth, Vaughn escapes from white authority and institutionalism in order to resist prejudice and establish a new life. That his destination is only the site of his mother’s death and his own probable re-incarceration does not negate the process, but only serves to strengthen the idea that it is the journey itself that matters. My Place and Beneath Clouds therefore illustrate that the journey matters more than the arrival because the journey facilitates the overcoming of prejudice.

      Secondly, My Place and St Francis Meditating demonstrate that the journey, not the arrival, matters, as the journey allows for the development of relationships. In My Place, Sally’s relationship and identification with her family is enriched on her journey, epitomised in the dedication of the text: “To My Family”. This begins with her public acknowledgement of her heritage, in her application for an Aboriginal scholarship, and is strengthened when Sally and her mother Glad visit Corunna Downs in northern Western Australia. Sally comments: “we had an Aboriginal consciousness now, and we were proud of it”. The collective ‘we’ underlines the transformation of the journey from a personal to a family search. Furthermore, the responders to My Place develop an intense relationship with the characters. Morgan uses a colloquial register and the personal pronoun “I” for the story-tellers, allowing the reader to share and respond to the various inner journeys on an equal and emotional level throughout the text. In the same way, St Francis Meditating demonstrates the forging of relationships in the duration of a journey. Caravaggio’s sixteenth century portrait deals with St Francis’ inner journey to reach spiritual fulfilment, during which time he develops a relationship with God. The divinity of the painting is illustrated by Christian iconography: the cross in the bottom left corner and the halo above St Francis’ head. In the monochromatic image, Caravaggio has constructed three salient features, the face, skull and cross, which form a triangular reading path. This indicates the relationship St Francis develops with the holy trinity as his journey progresses. Furthermore, the viewer who shares the journey forges a relationship with St Francis. Francis occupies a large proportion of the frame and is set against a black background, demanding our focus. His eyes on the skull offer the object to us, a perception reinforced by the placement of the skull in the right hand side of the work, inviting the viewers to take it into their own hands. The realism of the figure, with his dirty fingernails and torn cassock, humanise an otherwise idealised character, further enhancing the relationship with the viewer, who recognises their commonality. Caravaggio uses the interpersonal function of the work to engage the responder, enabling us to share in and relate to Francis’ inner journey. In this way, the responders of and the key protagonists in My Place and St Francis Meditating develop powerful relationships during their journeys, highlighting that the journey matters more than the arrival.

        Thirdly, My Place and ‘Journey to the Interior’ have shown me that many inner journeys do not, in fact, have a destination, illustrating the importance of the journey above that of the arrival. Sally’s inner journey begins from the first page in My Place as Sally gradually recognises her ethnicity. A new journey is initiated in the chapter “The Beginning”, in which Sally begins to embrace her new identity and acts impulsively in a search for knowledge. After discovering her Aboriginal heritage, she asks herself the rhetorical question, “what did it mean for someone like me?”. The endless questions reinforce the idea that the text is a detective story, and reiterate that there is no final destination; there is always more to understand. As Sally has no answers, and therefore no destination, the search for knowledge continues, and so does her inner journey. At the end of Morgan’s set of memoirs, Jill and Sally make a vow not to forget their grandmother: “It was a promise. A promise from our spirits to hers. We would never forget.” The repetition of “promise” fortifies the commitment Sally and Jill make not to lose their spiritual connection to their Nan, and thus another inner journey begins in both their lives. The word “never” reinforces the endlessness of such a journey: the arrival is of no importance because it does not exist. The cyclical nature of the inner journey is also expressed in the cerebral poem Journey to the Interior, which is a stream of consciousness exploring the dark territory of the human psyche. Atwood challenges her responders to embark on their own inner journey, but warns them that it is dangerous and never ending. Atwood writes that “there are no destinations” apart from the convoluted wreckage that exists in her mind. Unconventionally, the text does not conclude with an end stop, highly symbolic of the fact that the journey is never ending. The unusual syntax is representative of the non-linear journey that does not follow a predictable pattern. The simile “endless as prairies” uses imagery of a physical landscape to describe the vast continuity and isolation of the inner journey. This sense of continuity is paralleled by the length of the sentences, indicating the never ending nature of the journey. The rhetorical question “(have I been walking in circles again?)” reiterates the idea that there is no destination or end to the journey, as a circle is a signature of infinity. In addition, the poem is written in the present tense, suggesting the journey is still continuing. Atwood and Morgan therefore illustrate that the journey matters more than the arrival because there is no arrival and the journey does not end.

          In conclusion,  Morgan’s My Place, Atwood’s ‘Journey to the Interior’, Sen’s Beneath Clouds and St Francis Meditating by Caravaggio demonstrate the importance of the journey over and above the arrival. Firstly, the journey facilitates the overcoming of prejudice; secondly, it is through the journey that an individual can develop relationships with others; and finally, inner journeys do not, in fact, have a destination. These three texts indicate that indeed, it is the journey, not that arrival, that matters. 


Journeys have remained consistent throughout time, with little being changed as to the experiences obtained or the values of growth which have been learned, as well as the various ways in which the journeys are embarked upon. Physical, inner and imaginative journeys all possess the capacity to influence us on a number of different levels. Each journey although embarked upon in a different manners, embodies the ability to alter our ideas or broaden our ideas to a once simplistic process. Each addresses the fundamental area that a journey has the capacity to change an individual no matter what manner it is embarked upon, weather it be physically, internally, or imaginatively. 

Imaginative journeys more specifically have the represented through a number of texts and mediums and it is through these areas, that key ideas are harped upon. Imaginative journeys demonstrate an ability which can place inspiration in our thoughts, allow us to speculate what exactly it is, we are willing to achieve, and also broaden our imagination allowing us to be in a greater state of understanding as to what journeys on a whole can offer us. 

Shakespeare’s classic play, ‘The Tempest’, Groundhog Day Starring Bill Murray, Michael Leunig cartoons and Text #7, ‘The town where time stands still’ by Shirley Geok-Lin Lim, each establish a similar notion as to what imaginative journeys entail. It becomes evident that through such texts, imaginative journeys have the capacity to outline the transformative nature of individuals, and in the process, demonstrates the ability to convey the growth and consequent redemption of individuals. 
A further message which is crucial to imaginative journeys was expressed in the words or Lao Tze. “It is not the destination that is important, it is the journey”.

The Tempest, by William Shakespeare was said to have been the final play written and performed to a live audience, and the play in is self could be said to embody the characteristics of an imaginative journey as it takes its audience from the outset on a journey through language and song. More specifically although, the transformative nature of several characters within the play becomes evident, and a distinctive beginning, middle and end is portrayed to each of the characters. 

Caliban, at the beginning of the play is very resentful of the fact that Prospero has arrived and taken possession of the island in which he inhabited. This initially is a clear indication that Caliban cannot accept change easily and is a very irritated man who likes the ideas of power and possession much like that of Prospero. This setting sets the framework for a character who goes on a journey of realisation that material possession is not all that completes a man, and that there is more to life than simple power and wealth. As Caliban’s journey continues, he gradually builds greater and greater hatred for Prospero and in doing so conspires to kill him. This is an indication of the next step in the journey process and clearly outlines a transformation nature Caliban as a character. Finally, as Caliban’s journey comes to a close, the realisation that he must be respectful and accept that something don’t always go to play. This could be represented through the lines “how fine my master is”. There is a clear outline of remorse and respect for prospero and Caliban is contrite due to his previous actions. Wisdom and growth is further expressed in the lines “I’ll be wise hereafter” which portrays that Caliban has experienced growth and wisdom. 
As a consequence of Calibans humility he regains sovereignty of the island and the evident line, “power comes to those who wait” becomes apparent. 
Furthermore, Ferdinand in another character by which Shakespeare portrays the imaginative journey process once again through the transformative nature of characters. This time a journey is expressed, and emotion and love come into play. Initially, Ferdinand is a self centred and egotistical individual who has no real regard for feeling or compassion. He is the heir to the throne, and has his bountiful share of women, food and servants. As the play progresses, Ferdinand meets Miranda, and falls tragically in love, yet in the process he must deal with the possible death of his father as a consequence of Prospero’s conjured storm. 
Emotions come into play, when he feels grief and sorrow in knowing of the possibility his father may be dead. The fact that he is shipwrecked outlines his isolation, and as a consequence, his innocence is revealed, when he does not have others to do his bidding. This demonstrates the idea that journeys allow for the realisations of self traits, and in doing so outline the fact that journeys so easily can change and alter individuals. 
Finally, as his journey draws to a close, he ultimately learns what true love is, and realises the fact, that he must work for it, in order for it to be true. This leads him to be more humble as a ruler and places him in a far greater position to lead his people as the future king. 

The tempest uses several techniques to convey such messages, and language proves to be one of the most influential ways in which Shakespeare conveys his own imaginative journey, as well as the one which is evident to responders of late. Such language techniques as soliloquy are used, where by thoughts and words of characters are not directly expressed to the audience. Long speeches, spells or stories are used to convey thoughts, in a more dramatic and imaginative way. Furthermore, song and music are used in conjunction with language to emphasise a point of fantasy or mystique and are another technique was is evident on nine occasions in The Tempest, more so than any other ok Shakespeare’s plays.  
Dramatic irony is a further technique which is used by Shakespeare through the character of Aerial. Dramatic irony is the technique where by the audience is aware of its presence, yet the individuals which It is impacting on, have no knowledge what so ever. Aerial appears and disappears as he pleases, wreaking havoc on the island inhabitants. This technique could also be seen in Alice in Wonderland, where the Chesnee cat continually does the same troublesome act, causing Alice a great degree of bother. Puns are another technique which is commonly used to confuse the reader and further provoke the imagination. “I drink the air before me” is an example of how Shakespeare uses a play on words to accentuate the imagination and further provoke though. 

An evident link arises between Groundhog Day, and that of The Tempest, through the strive for love. Ferdinand was searching for his true love, but was only able to realise what he had, once he had to work long and hard for it, and he knew that it was true. 
In Groundhog Day, several imaginative journeys are embarked upon, and the main concept that imaginative journeys allow for the transformative nature of individuals becomes apparent.  Phil Connors played by Bill Murray, awakes on Groundhog Day, day after day, after agonising day. Through these journeys emotions such as, bewilderment, denial, acceptance and love are all expressed. The movie expresses the evident fact, that in order to achieve goals and desires, the right possible process must be taken and there is no simple answer for love or life for that matter. 
The clearly evident technique of repetition is conveyed, with the same day occurring over and over again, until at one point it almost bears no meaning. The story bases itself around the transformations in which Phil the protagonist goes through. At many stages he awakes and simply takes his life, in an attempt to get all these problems behind him. An underlying message is evident about journeys, in that it is not so easy, to just simply walk away from reality. The truth must be faced, and the truth is what will set you free. Bill Murray goes through a state of denial, acceptance, love, loss of hope, the realisation that there are more meaningful things in life. As a consequence of this realisation, he saves a mans life, learns to play the piano, does numerous good deeds for citizens, and ultimately comes to where he was initially, with one major change. He has fallen in love with Andy, the right way.  

This can be seen in Text #7, by Shirley Goek-Lin Lim, “the town where time stands still”. Shirley writes that “they will return to the place in which they came, blessed and altered”. Through these words, it becomes evident that  through the journey process, the individual at the end of the day, will still be in the same situation as they previously were, yet will be ‘blessed and altered’ into a better person, which evidently depicts the concept that imaginative journeys convey the transformative nature of individuals. 
Furthermore, Shirley also writes that “humans hope to be moved rather than to move”. This provides a valuable insight into humanity, depicting that something is always wanted to be achieved, yet for little or no work. This once again draws back to Groundhog Day, as well as that of The Tempest, where Ferdinand, was unwilling to work for his love. He would rather “be moved” in other words arrive at love, than “move”, fall in love. 

Lastly, Michael Leunig is a highly renowned and controversial cartoonist, who hails from Melbourne. A cartoon titled “Cavemen”, taken from the 2002 book ‘The Stick’, provides further insight into the notion that imaginative journeys outline transformation as well as outlining that the journey is important, not the destination. The picture illustrates four men sitting around in a circle, one holding a bat. With a caption reading “...can you imagine if something like this slipped into the wrong hands?” The use of captions is a technique use to illustrate a satirical point of view, on nuclear war. The other three cavemen are sitting around with very different expressions on their faces. One is stroking his beard, in a very sinister manner and could be a representation of Iraq of Afghanistan showing an interest into what ‘nuclear weapons’ were capable of achieving. The second character has an expression of terror. This gives an insight into the minds of society, worried and nervous about what could occur. Lastly, the final character is sitting with a face of helplessness, almost carefree as to what could occur. This is a representation of the pessimists in society who believe that nuclear war may wreak devastation on the world and there is no means to prevent it.  Transformation of individuals is conveyed through the fact that, in light of new evidence, it is so effortless for individuals to change their perceptions, ideas and strategies based on information which is provided to them. 

Journeys are a very vast an multi-dimensional concept, where the several notions such as how imaginative journeys demonstrate the ability to portray the transformative nature of individuals, or to outline the fact that it is not the destination that is important, it’s the journey. 
Shirley Goek-Lin Lim outlines essentially what imaginative journeys envisage. “They will return to the place, from which they came blessed and altered”. It is through this line that it becomes evident that journeys aim at changing individuals and provoking a greater thought as to what can be inspired, an understanding of the greater realm of speculation, as well as what the imagination has to offer us. 

It is not the destination, but the journey itself that is important to human experience.

If there are no experiences then there would be no journey and without journey there cannot be a destination because a person would be unable to reach it without journey. The significance of journey can be shown through a range of texts including My Place by Sally Morgan, the film The Wizard of Oz  directed by Victor Fleming, The Road not Taken and Stopping by the Woods on a Snowy Evening poems by Robert Frost which demonstrate that a person must pause and make time in life to make choices and be accepting of them.
As My Place the story develops, the main protagonist Sally engages in a fact-finding mission, which becomes a spiritual and psychological search for wholeness prompting personal change in the characters and demonstrating the political change over the last century. Daisy and Sally represent opposite ends to the journey of Aboriginal people but both do not want to be oppressed.
 Her quest began at the discovery as an adolescent being of Aboriginal ancestry and the question asked “We’re Aboriginal aren’t we, Mum?” and Gladys reply “Yes” shows the change in Sally of no longer being ignorant about her heritage and changes in her mother verbally admit to being Aboriginal and no longer denying it, also shows
 the point of transition where Sally becomes more self-aware.
 The circumstances under which the family suppressed their Aboriginality were due to the government’s policy of assimilation and denial of Aboriginality. The political change is seen through “Besides things are different now” which shows the acceptance rather than oppression “There was so much about myself I didn’t understand” – emotive language is used to express her confused and lonely state of mind. The confusion & loneliness lasts until the journey to when she spiritually finds herself, when she visits Daisy’s birthplace and finds her “we had a sense of place now…our place” which is a metaphor for herself and her family in rekindling their connection with their cultural identity and finding a more authentic self.
 The chronological nature of the story allows us to see her grow as she learns more about her heritage. By finding her families past she finds her own self and becomes more a whole person who can relate to the world more convincingly. From the insecure little girl who takes the journey down the hospital corridor at the start of the text Morgan has changed into an individual who is sure of self and has a sense of belonging. The fact that she tells her story in the first person narrative also allows us to follow her story. It gives the responder an insight into the manner in which it affects her individual circumstance. It is intensely personal and profound and takes courage to share.
 Viewing the world in a different way is also part of Sally Morgan’s self journey. Morgan utilises two techniques to tell her families story. She researches her family’s histories and uses the Aboriginal tradition of oral history to help her record their stories. This process contributes to her own personal growth and development. By allowing Arthur, Daisy, and Gladys to tell their own stories it adds to the emotional power of the book.
 It is not the destination, but the journey that shaped and changed Sally Morgan’s life forever. The destination was only a motivation to begin a journey where eventually Sally would grow & learn about who she really was.
 The film The Wizard of Oz sets the main protagonist Dorothy on a journey but with no destination in mind, identifying that a destination is not even necessary, because so much is gained from the journey itself, which is important to human experience.
 Dorothy decides to ‘follow the yellow brick road’ to Emerald City but is constantly uncertain about which way to go, needing the advice and help of others. Fleming uses the nonsensical lyrics of the repeated ‘We’re off to see the Wizard’ song to indicate she’s on a journey but is not really certain of what she needs. This uncertainty is used by Fleming to represent Dorothy’s lack of self-understanding at the beginning of her journey.
 Similarly, her companions are equally uncertain about what it is they want, hinging their hopes on the most tangible remedy for their unhappiness- ‘a brain’, ‘a heart’ and ‘some courage’. By the end of the film Dorothy is the one offering advice and even reprimanding the ‘great Oz’, ‘if you were really great and powerful, you’d keep your promises’ angry at his lack of ethics and self direction. This development makes the journey worthwhile.  
 Through Dorothy’s journey, she becomes a person who has greater confidence in her heart and realises what she values and believes in, similarly to Sally Morgan of My Place. 
 The journey teaches Dorothy about the human propensity for weakness and evil. The wicked witch pursues Dorothy without mercy and Dorothy comes to realise that the only weapon against evil is worthiness. Thus she and her companions seek the attributes that counter the weakness of society. 
 The Road Not Taken by Robert Frost relates on both a literal & metaphorical level to the concept of a journey. The poem depicts one man’s journey throughout his life, the choices he made and the road he travelled. It is a first person narrative tale of a monumental moment in the speaker’s life. Frost presents the idea of an individual facing the difficult unalterable predilection of a moment and a lifetime. 
 Frost effectively conveys his theme and meaning through the use of numerous techniques. These techniques include simple yet powerful imagery, rhyme & rhythm. Also vital in the effectiveness of the poem is the use of symbolism & the extended metaphor present. Literally this man is a traveller standing at the divergence of two roads. Metaphorically this man is in the ‘autumn’ of his life, suggested by the ‘yellow wood’. 
 The title immediately introduces the reader into the poem and its meaning, yet poses the question; when Frost writes The Road Not Taken  is he implying the road he did not take or the road not taken by others? And which is more important. The rhyme and rhythm scheme, which is simple and effective. Throughout the poem the rhyme scheme is ABAAB except for the final stanza where Frost has created emphasis on the last line ‘And that has made all the difference’ by implementing a new scheme ABACC where the final line, though stands out and alone. The rhythm in the poem is very personal and informal. The use of flowing and conversational rhythm establishes a personal connection between the reader and the writer. First person enables a direct insight into the subject’s thoughts & feelings. The majority of the poem is story like; especially in the last stanza the poem’s tone changes, into a more reminiscent and reflecting which results in a strong positive feeling conveyed by Frost. 
 Only at the conclusion of the poem is where we see some closure about the destination of the journey, but throughout the majority of the poem the destination as indicated by the fact that we never find out where he goes, seems trivial and rather the journey that will shape the rest of the man’s life and the experiences he is soon to encounter.
 The character in the poem ‘Stopping by the Woods on a Snowy Evening’ by Robert Frost who stops and analyses his journey and chooses to enjoy life and think about the road ahead of him. This poem is able to demonstrate the importance of choices in the journey rather than focus on destination due to it being unimportant.
 The metaphor of journey representing life and stopping to “watch the woods” representing a pause and “but I have miles to go before I sleep” representing the continuation of the life journey. These metaphors collectively form a meaning that through a person’s life journey they must stop and take a break to think of their choices and then to keep going with their long journey they must keep going on this journey only thinking the end is a long way away.
 “…dark and deep…” gives a sense of evil, dangerous, and a scary unknown of the path before the traveller, through its alliteration, which illustrates the feeling of loneliness felt at this point of choice further demonstrating that ultimately the person must make the choice on heir own. This is significant because it reveals the journey a person goes through is their own and can call it their own because it was paved by them, which gives ownership to the experiences of these choices making the journey more essential than the objective.
 In contrast with the gloom of “dark and deep” the repetition of the ‘s’ sound through out the final lines of the poem ‘The woods are lovely...’ ‘...I have promises to keep’ ‘And miles to go before I sleep’ gives the poem a soft, clam and peaceful tone. This shows that the persona is taking his time which shows the significance of life choice and through the significance demonstrates that journey is essential rather than the destination itself because all he will o at the destination is “sleep”. The repetition of the final lines “and I have miles to go before I sleep, and I have miles to go before I sleep” additionally emphasises the life choice to meet responsibilities and to continue along the chosen path. This poem ‘Stopping by the Woods on a Snowy Evening’ shows that even though life choices are important a person should take time to pause & experience the journey they must go on to come to the resolutions or rather the destination of their decisions. 
 So therefore, through these resources it is proven that journey is above the destination in being more important for  human experience, because through these journeys the human experiences be created it is not in the destination. Through a journey a person through their regrets, unhappiness and bad times they are able to learn from it which is when they discover journey.
The Journey

A journey is the process of moving from point A to point B.  It involves a beginning and an end; it has a commencement, a goal and a conclusion.  Often the end point is not the point originally intended, planned for or aimed at.  This does not matter as it does not redefine the literal meaning of the word “journey” although it may redefine the journey itself.

Culture abounds with symbols of the journey – The open road, the beaten track, the high road, a different path, pathways, the road less traveled, and the bread highway.  All of these images comate a type of journey; freedom, choices, adventure, danger, risk, learning, growth, identity, individuality.  Just as a literal journey has an impact on our physical state, journeys of the mind shape, change and develop our emotional and intellectual state.

Stories of journeys are almost always vehicles for narrative of personal growth, change, discovery or development.  Sometimes they embody or explicate the journey of an individual but often also the journey of a community.  Take, “Lord of the Rings” it tracks both kinds of journey, that of the individual and of communities – literally and figuratively.  Frodo’s journey as ring bearer changes him forever; it also changes this group that accompanies him.  The fellowship, and in ever increasing circle, the whole of Middle Earth.  At the end of the tale, the journeys end, a massive change in the future of a whole world takes places as the elves pass away to be replaces by the age of man.

Frodo’s journey involves many pecks and thoughts, each one shaping the person he is to be come.  When he sets out from Hobbiton to take the ring to the Elves, Frodo knows that he is in danger, but he has very little concept of the extent of this danger.  He starts his journey with a sense of purpose but also of adventure and excitement.  It is not until his encounter with the Nazgut that Frodo realizes that he is a tiny piece of events much bigger than himself, in reaching Rivendell in surviving, Frodo believes he has achieved his purpose and completed his journey, and He looks forward to returning to the happy and carefree life he left behind.  He has learned to value the innocence and triviality of ordinary life and he realizes that it is something to be cherished and protected.  This change, wrought by his journey, becomes the compelling force that drives Frodo to undertake his second, almost hopeless, journey.  When he volunteers to take the right o Morder, Frodo does so realising that the life he has now come to value will pass away if he does not succeed. Frodo’s tragedy is that although ultimately successful, his next journey does not lead to home,  in the end he save Middle Earth but is so scarred by the process that he cannot enjoy what has won.

In this sense, the journey is a metaphor for something much more significant than the movement of a person or an object from one place to another

Imaginative journeys are one of the ways we are able to satisfy feelings and emotions that are otherwise impossible to achieve. By undertaking imaginative journeys it has allowed differing types of notions to arise and these can be seen in differing texts which include Coleridge’s This Lime Tree Bowyer My Prison and Kubla Khan. Other texts that emphasis the differing notions that imaginative journeys allow include The Road Not Taken composed by Robert Frost, Elton John’s album cover Goodbye Yellow Brick Road illustrated by Ian Beck and Billy Joel’s musical piece, The River of Dreams.

Coleridge has used the ability to undertake imaginative journeys to take the reader on a journey to an alternate place. The journey expressed has allowed the reader to experience a variety of ideas to develop in ones imagination. An example is in the text This Lime Tree Bowyer My prison where Coleridge uses imagery along with playful exaggeration like “roaring dell” to add colour and a sense of vitality to the imaginative journey his undertaking. Juxtaposition of the imaginative images are also use in words like “flings arching” in order to create and show the extent and dimensions of both ends in imaginative journey that allows us to undertake physical journeys in an imaginative way.

This Lime Tree Bowyer My Prison has also allowed the notion of self change undertaken on imaginative journeys to be expressed. This transformation of ones self is conveyed using the change in tone of the poem. From the onset, the title gives the impression that Coleridge has a negative feeling towards being stuck under the lime tree which he expresses as being his “Prison” and the regret that his friends have gone with the depressed tone of “well, they are gone”. However as the poem progresses there is a transformation of his attitude through the imaginative journey he undertakes to a stage where “A delight comes sudden on my heart” which shows how imaginative journeys create self change and transform attitude.

Coleridge in Kubla Khan shows another notion that can be undertaken on imaginative journeys can be fanciful and engaging. The reader is taken on a journey of Coleridge’s imagination and the imaginative journey with Kubla Khan. The use of alliteration “five miles meandering with a mazy motion” creates a sense of mystery and wonder in the responder and also “five miles of fertile ground” to set up the feeling of largeness and instil in the reader the impressive nature of the domain of Kubla Khan. Coleridge also uses surreal images that allow the reader to show how imaginative journeys can be beautiful and fanciful which are expressed in “sunny pleasure domes” and the “sacred rivers” which allows and attempts to make the reader experience the notions of imaginative journeys conveyed in the poem.

The Road Not Taken composed by Robert Frost is an example of how journeys have the ability to be challenging yet fulfilling. The challenge presented is the journey of choice and is represented in the poem as the division of the two roads. The poem written as an extended metaphor has allowed the composer to convey ideas about how through the choice of roads, they cannot be reversed “ever come back” and how choices are not transparent “bent in the undergrowth” to show the difficulty that are present in journeys.

The careful use of diction has allowed the composer to create a response in the reader by using low modality language such as “fair and “same” to place question in the readers mind to emphasis the extreme difficulty in making decisions by allowing them to reflect on the imaginative journey of choice. The repeated use of the first person pronoun “I” also enables the composer to express the personal nature of the journey that is being undertaken. The poem has enabled the portrayal of imaginative journeys as being a journey of making personal decisions in order for a final outcome which is what “made all the difference” that is reflected in the final stanza where the tense of the poem changes from being past tense in the first 3 stanzas to present tense “I shall” in the final to show how the journey of choice itself is more important than the ending.

Other texts that have allowed greater understanding of how journeys can express different ideas include Elton John’s album Goodbye Yellow Brick Road illustrated by Ian beck. Symbolic features such as the use of the yellow brick road that has links to the children’s tale Wizard of OZ has Dorothy undertaking the imaginative journey in The Wizard of Oz let the readers relate to the journey of Dorothy being able to satisfy her many fantasy’s by undertaking an imaginative journey.

Juxtaposition of images between the natural environment in the poster and the urban city in the background further emphasises how imaginative journeys have the ability to highlight the extent of travel between the real world and the imaginary to satisfy ones fantasy. By being able to travel to alternate destinations it has meant that imaginative journeys beyond reality allow us to escape the boundaries that are present in the real world by jumping into a poster to satisfy out fantasies.

Billy Joel’s River of Dreams is an extended metaphor of the notion of journey being the transformation of ones attitude and journey’s leading to discovery of ones life. This has been undertaken in an imaginative journey in this musical piece through the use of repetition of the chorus and symbolic nature of the river and the ocean being the path of journey and the ocean being the destination that will bring greater understanding to ones self.

The chorus in the River of Dreams has slight variations as the song goes through. One distinct change is the 3rd line of the chorus which varies from “mountains of faith” to “jungle of doubt” to “valley of fear” and “desert of truth” to enable the reader to experience the transformation in the state of mind on the imaginative journey of learning and understanding that is being undertaken. This use of repetition with has a regular rhyme pattern has allowed the reader to undertake a journey which is shows familiarity and change.

The symbolic nature of the river also plays an integral part in portraying the notion of journey taking place. Billy Joel describes the river as being metaphor to the barriers of journeys since the “river is wide, and it’s too hard to cross”, however as the journey is undertaken, the river of dreams has transformed into a stepping stone of the journey that we’ve all been “carried along by the river of dreams” so that we’ve been able to gain self knowledge which is at the end of the journey that “end in the ocean”.

Imaginative journeys have allowed us to experience differing notion journeys that are able to portray the consequences that occur on imaginative journeys. These texts have provided us with the many notions of journeys that vary from self discovery, change, choice and satisfying our fantasies that otherwise won’t be possible if imaginative journey’s are not undertaken. The techniques used to express these ideas help inspire and respond of the reader in undertaking an imaginative journey.

Inner Journeys

  Through various texts we have explored the idea of inner journeys, and the power of them. The power of inner journeys is that through the experiences gained a long the way we learn how to overcome the challenges in our life that transform a person’s perception. This leads to a new understanding of our potential, and our spiritual or emotional obstacles that leave us with self growth from being egocentric to having compassion and understanding.
  In J. G. Ballad's novel, Empire of the Sun, we are engrossed into the remarkable journey into the mind of a growing boy, with horror and humanity of the blind helplessness of war which transform a young boy from naivety and ignorance to showing compassion to others in a time where he was helpless.
  Maestro by Peter Goldsworthy shows the inner journey of the character Paul. Confronted by the death of his piano teacher and mentor; we trace his steps of reflection on his past and attitudes towards life and discover the obstacles placed for him to overcome his loss.
  In one episode of “Enough Rope”, Andrew Denton interviews Aaron Ralston. We trace the steps of one’s struggle to survive in a Colorado wilderness, through which we learn about the human capacity to have enormous courage, determination and resilience to survive through his inner mind.
  Margaret Atwood's poem Journey to the Interior tries explains the inner journey through poetry of a woman trapped within her mind, this journey is the multidimensional exploration of the concept of a journey which ends with a different aspect of self growth.
  Empire of the Sun is a novel which gathers and displays its power gradually, we see the challenges of a 10 year old boy swept up from his life of naivety and ignorance and placed into a region of childhood nightmares of loss and disorientation. We are confronted with Jim, a naïve and deluded child, however, Ballard’s characterisation of Jim unveils gradually for us, shaping him.
  “Fascinated by the gleaming Sam Browns of these sweating overweight men” we see a strong technique of visual imagery which enunciates to us about Jim’s naivety. Jim believes he can start the war, his belief that the world revolves around him is expressed through Ballard’s detached narration and then mirrored by Jim’s own detachment.
  We can see beyond his naivety; there is within him a level of defiance that becomes prevalent throughout the novel. Jim has inner strength, which is unveiled to us and we emphasise with him as he grows from naivety and self centeredness to knowledge and compassion, through his ordeals.
  As the novel progresses so does Jim’s character and his journey. Jim is placed in the setting of the concentration camp surrounded by human suffering and death. Jim must face the challenge of making it out: alone.
  Jim’s world has changed dramatically, from the garden parties at Mr Lockwood’s to “thousands of flies gathered around the truck, attracted by the sweat and urine running across the boards”. His velvet slippers had been replaced by “his stick-legs and ragged clothes”, we see here using metaphor that through time his new awareness of the war in contrast of the naive outlook on life he had; he can see reality now.
  Ballard has contrasted Jim’s past and his present to give us a understanding of how Jim’s journey has progressed. In the camp Jim develops a sense of survival, isolating himself from the other inmates and his reality. “These strange locations appealed to him, for the first time he felt able to enjoy the war”. Ballard uses a detached tone which provides us a glimpse into Jim’s psyche, “It only disappointed him that his fellow prisoners failed to share his excitement”. We are then placed with the reality for other people, this is juxtaposed to Jim’s excitement. “The two English boys, still barely aware of their mother’s death…”. This point in the novel we witness and emphathise with Jim’s strength and his ability to adapt to situations, especially coming from where he was before, his strength and resilience enable him to survive.
  Jim, still a child; is propelled to survive by the idea of locating his parents; they are what keep him going and act as a catalyst towards his determination of survival, but the most important change that occurs in the novel, is that Jim’s sense of compassion blossoms, Ballard’s graphic imagery succinctly conveys a powerful insight on Jim’s part, he realised “that these starving men were laying their own bones, in a carpet for the Japanese bombers who would land upon them”. Jim now sees the world as it is, no longer as naïve as before and here we learn the power that a young child can take into their own hands and experience horrific events and change to such an extent and be able to come out seeing the world as it is without guidance,
  “Kumara’s tubercular face resembled a small child as he himself has been here before the war” this is shown through the reflection Ballard has used, to let us become aware of Jim’s journey from precociousness to empathy by having a reflective tone. Jim takes on his inner journey primarily alone and we see through here, he is thoroughly aware of it.
  When Jim lets go of his suitcase full of the last possessions of his past life we see a final turning point of his major change and a rebirth “As the box floated away, like the coffin of a Chinese child, the circles of oil raced to embrace it and sent tremors of light across the river”. Ballard has used artistic and symbolic visual imagery which acts as a metaphor for Jim’s reincarnation. This rebirth he experiences is what brings him into the end of a journey, where he comes to self growth, rids himself of his past life, past attitudes and is essentially reborn into a world of reality and knowledge. This is also connected with his growth of compassion which is shown by the moment when he brings water to Mrs. Phillips and she rewards him, “Mrs. Phillips opened her case. She felt inside and produced a small potato ‘There you are. Remember to pray for us all…. (Jim)I’ll pay you back… - You’ve already paid me back, Jim many times.’”
  Compassionate understanding that Jim is simply an organism interracially intertwined in an interconnected universe. Ballard allows us the importance of the universal force of nature we learn to empathise with Jim, and see him from a new perspective. The sun itself romantically defeated by the atomic bomb, offers salvation. Most importantly, Jim acts selflessly towards others, and in so doing, contemplated the spiritual, the metaphysical experiences its effects on us as humans. He therefore transcends and continues of the structures of Empire and hatred.
  Although in a comparison of Jim’s journey we have a different but at the same time similar aspect from the literary extract from Maestro providing insight into the protagonist’s attitude and new perspective of his past, his relationships and himself. As he reflects on his life and confronts his loss, Paul’s inner journey helps him, and the responder come to a greater awareness of the power of the inner journey to develop our understanding of our place in the world, and in doing so we come to value life, with its foibles and its rewards, this can be compared with Empire of the sun because we deal with loss as well, Paul is confronted with a loss of a mentor who kept him in line all these years; as Keller is for Paul, Jim’s parents are for him.
  We are confronted with Paul’s loss of his piano teacher Keller, distraught and nostalgic this is where Paul’s journey begins. “I re-explored the town, trying to find some trace of the past, some ancient layer” here Goldsworthy used visual imagery to imply to us his search for the past and an understanding of where it went wrong. With Keller’s death we feel Paul’s loss, and his realisation of his wasted years, starting to get to a more inner approach to Paul and his feelings towards Keller. “But somewhere inside that frail, papier-mâché body, some last border had been crossed; something had gone missing, finally.” Here Goldsworthy’s imagery helps us understand Paul’s feelings for Keller, and how he had become a hollow memory etched into his mind. Paul travels into a frenzy of reflection, while we are moved by his loss.
  Through out this Goldsworthy has used a strong emotive tone to help convey Paul’s inner journey to us: “but wanted someone – anyone – to know that a Great Man had died” it symbolises his pain and loss inside. This is juxtaposed with his dependence on Keller as a mentor “no matter how many years since our last consultation – he had been a safety net, offering a faint last hope” the use of the Metaphor of a safety net links us to this and we learn about ones dependence on Keller, and we are able to empathise with Paul’s loss.
  Throughout Paul’s journey he comes to terms with his imperfections in music, his lack of emotion which has driven him to be obsessed with technique, can also be compared as a metaphor for his attitude towards life, “Only those capable of ugliness can be beautiful, a phrase I had failed to understand and thought nonsensical, at the time”. Here through his reflection we see a new understanding of perfection and we see Paul accept his limits of musical perfection and how his dissatisfaction towards life changes to acceptance of his journey.
  We see how through Paul’s experiences he has gained knowledge and overcome challenges and learn to accept the past. “The sun broke below the heaving clouds, a rare, golden light drenching, saturating the town”. Goldsworthy uses imagery to symbolise the sun as a new beginning, which brings us to a new understanding of Paul. In reflection of his journey through his painful life, “Soon I would be flying back to the South: to the woman and child that I loved, within the confines of a life that I hated” Paul accepts his life at home will not be any better. The past tense also suggests Paul is unhappy with his life. “Can I know that mine was a foolish, innocent world, a world of delusion and feeling and ridiculous dreams – a world of music – and still love it? Endlessly, effortlessly”. Here Goldsworthy demonstrates the outcome of Paul’s growth, from being egocentric to having compassion and understanding, not to others but of himself, he grows and learns how to accept life and loss through his inner journey, and we too learn to overcome obstacles, and live to reflect on them. We can compare this to Empire of the Sun, Jim too reflects on his journey through loss, through the loss of his past life and detachment from his parents he is stripped down mentally of thought and memories, and survival is the key for his existence, for Paul his loss brought him self realisation, and a spiritual journey that traces him back to his first steps where the trouble began, but self growth is achieved in both texts and a new understanding of ones self is brought upon.
  While Paul’s journey was a product on reflecting on his past, Ralston’s journey was propelled by his vision of his future to fight for survival, Jim’s fight for survival was book brought upon the idea of locating his parents. These are all comparitable with each other by the central theme of seeking salvation in the direst situations.
  The Andrew Denton interview – “Enough Rope” on Aaron Ralston recounts his experiences in cutting off his arm in a final bid to free him self  after being trapped in the Colorado Wilderness. The concept of Inner Journey is thoughtfully and inspirationally explored in this interview through Ralston’s generosity in recounting not only his ordeal, but the inherent human qualities that enabled him to survive such a catastrophic situation.
  We see how Andrew Denton uses a friendly relaxed manner to help open up Ralston and get as much information from his as possible, “I’ve always wondered does urine taste a bit like chicken stock?” this black humour sets a relaxed scene. As Ralston leads us through the stages of his journey from the time he thought he was going to die to the point of cutting his arm off, we are fervent from the start, hanging on his every word. In tracing his journey we too embark on a process of reflection and self exploration of what humans are capable of, in a time of “horror and torture”. As Aaron talks through his experience we sense an overwhelming surge of emotion simmering beneath the surface of this man through his calm tone, his turning point of writing his epilate on the wall, “I took out my pocket knife and I etched in the wall over my left shoulder, my name/And above my birth date/And ‘Rest in Peace” this suggested he momentary gave up his survival.
  A turning point in this journey was his vision of his future son, “I saw that I didn’t have a hand on my right side. And the reactions and the way that we interacted there, told me that he…this was my son”. This reflective tone sets up the beginning of his will power which is propelled through out the time to bring up the courage and self realisation of his human capacity to overcome the obstacles which faced him at the time and “there was a future outside that canyon” At the same time through Denton’s ability to engage with and encourage Ralston to share his story without exploitation, which we see through the tone throughout the interview we witness true compassion and empathy.
  To set himself free Ralston amputated his arm, here we are confronted with more detail than we can bear and are left astound with the human capacity to look into ourselves and find the courage and determination to go on. But what really shows his freedom was Ralston’s smile at the end, “And my body, all of a sudden, was just reeling with this euphoria”. This visual imagery entrances us with the image of a man being set free, we are placed with a new understanding of the world, that anything is possible, this is a true life changing lesson for us all and we can relate this to Jim who fought for everything to survive. Through his positive tone we are made to believe that there is a life beyond our possessions which connect to us in our daily lives, this egocentric nature he gave up for the value of his life and here we see the absolute power of the inner journey. This is comparitable with Jim’s compassion for human life and his kind nature towards dying people to help them in a final bid for them to die peacefully.
  In spite of the other 2 texts we have in contrast Journey to the interior which subverts the main ideas of a journey into an act of reflection of the inner mind, although it can be compared with Maestro, since it brings about the same qualities of reflection of a past or present.
  This poem explored various meanings which can be drawn together, the search for the self, leads to conclusions of life’s journeys, it presents a multidimensional exploration of the concept of journeys, it has many complex shades of meaning. Atwood’s layered approach allows her to explore and delve into hidden recesses of landscapes that are physical and metaphysical in nature. Her mental wanderings take her on a quest to discover the meanings associated with identity and nationhood. 
  The poem explores the search for one self, “A sentence crossing my path, sodden as a falling log I’m sure I passed yesterday” here metaphor is used, it suggests the repetitive nature of her life, how it has become meaningless and disempowered, here we see she has lost her sense of identity through “A compass is useless” but also it’s her attempt to take directions from the movement of the sum, “which are erratic”.
We compare that her physical environment brings about confusion, with her inner state which is unstable. The parallel with the external word gives us insights to the inner workings of her mind and we gain a sense of her struggle to come to terms with herself.
She also explores the confusion of life’s Journeys; this is represented by the map imager and terminology she uses to convey the journey, its stages and challenges. “Mostly the travel is not easy going from one point to point, a dotted line on a map…” We see here that this journey is fought with danger, through with danger the metaphor “but that I move more surrounded by a tangle of branches” we see there are no clear indicators; “a compass is useless’ and even more daunting as she reflects on her plight, “Whatever I do, I must not lose my head/ it is easier to lose my way here than in other landscapes” We learn that foreign surroundings are uneasy for some.
  The main idea of this poem is Atwood’s determination to overcome her inner struggle and maintain her sanity. Imagery of physical landscapes “the hills that are welded together open as I move to let me through” The reference to physical boundaries of her environment carry connotations of entrapment, yet she is aware that she can take some control and regain some freedom. This reflects on her domestic life “lucid white mushrooms” “Your shoe…where it shouldn’t be…” suggests her preoccupation with the mundane aspects of her life, her situation, causing her to retreat deeper into the mind, the most dangerous, difficult terrain. We learn about the inner workings of one’s struggle in life.
  The almost desperate struggle tone of the last stanza conveys both the struggle and determination to gain control; “I must not lose my head” She has come to a profound awareness of the need to maintain her sanity.
  We see through Journey to the interior that not all journeys are the same, and we can contrast this, where as most inner journeys bring us new compassion and understanding Atwood’s approach brings us self awareness of our inner mind, but this can also be compared with Maestro's and his too brought upon self awareness after the travel through the path of self reflection on his past.
  As we can see Inner journeys have been presented in different mediums, through the workings of interviews, books and poetry we all leave them with a new understanding of experiences through them, and we too reflect back on the challenges faced by these characters and our perceptions are transformed by them, we come to terms with the human capacity to withstand the most toughest situations for Jim and Aaron, whether they may be physical, emotional for Paul or mental which are for Atwood. We to come to terms with not only the characters self growth but ours too, in one way or another we grow from egocentricity to compassion and understanding from standing beside the experiences that occurred in these texts and we leave them with the growth that the characters experience.


Imaginative journeys are a process of transportation from one place to another without physical movement.  It can be a journey using the imagination to bring oneself into a different realm or it can be a process of thought using one's imagination.  The texts, "On Giants Shoulders" by Melvyn Bragg, "Where the Wild Things Are" by Maurice Sendak, and "Journey to the Interior" by Margaret Atwood all explore the idea of imaginative journeys and what they can achieve for the viewer, composer and the context of the text.

Melvyn Bragg, in his text "On Giants Shoulders", uses the inspirational stories of scientists such as Marie Curie, fighting the odds in a man's world, and Charles Darwin, trying to give the public the truth despite the Church criticising his ideas and work.  Each story, however, is about scientific discovery and Bragg explores the idea that science and the process of discovery is due to imaginative journeys. An example of this is with Einstein where Bragg uses quotations to add validity to his ideas such as Einstein's "happiest thought of my life" where he "imagined someone falling" in order to come up with his theory on relativity, reinforcing the idea that Einstein had to imagine to come up with his theory, thereafter he had to go on an imaginative journey.  Imaginative journeys can lead to scientific discoveries is what is demonstrated by this.  

Bragg also looks at the idea of scientific discoveries as a collective process of imaginative journeys.  He claims that a previous scientist had "dropped the ball" and Marie Curie had "picked it up".  This analogy serves to demonstrate that to come up with her discovery of radium she had to work on the imaginative journey of another.  Bragg also illustrates this through the chronology of the book and the title, suggesting that the overall process of science is one imaginative journey working off another.

The viewer is also taken on an imaginative journey in the text "On Giant Shoulders" in order to demonstrate a point of Bragg's, that imaginative journeys lead to us being able to learn.  Bragg takes us on an imaginative journey "A century ago" and presents us with the idea that "many people thought it’s all been done" in terms of science and then how the world had been turned "upside down by Einstein's theory of relativity".  By alluding to past ideas and times, Bragg is able to take us on an imaginative journey and teach us through it that science is infinate, but more importantly demonstrating that imaginative journeys can teach us, the viewer, by asking us to speculate ideas of the past.

Even the composer himself, Bragg, is able to go on an imaginative journey and illustrate its ability to bring us to worlds of infinite imagination.  An example of this is when Bragg himself tries to imagine Michael Faraday's laboratory, claiming "this laboratory is small, rather bare, with much less equipment than a laboratory in a thousand modern schools".  This metaphor of "a thousand local schools" helps to illustrate the detail in Braggs detailed description and makes it seem much more realistic to us, and authentic.  By making this quick picture of the imagination seem so authentic he is taking us on an imaginative journey and proving how it can take us to a world of imagination, where we can travel to different  places and even different times. Bragg is therefore demonstrating how imaginative journey can have infinite possibilities.

Like Bragg, Margaret Atwood also considers the idea that imaginative journeys have the ability to let us discover.  In her poem "Journey to the Interior" Atwood is going on an imaginative journey through her inner psych trying to "find herself".  In this imaginative journey Atwood uses repetition of the word 'that', making observations such as 'that travel is not easy going' and 'that a cliff is not xxxx".  The repetition of this word seems to suggest 'that' she is making many observations and is on a process of learning.  Atwood is demonstrating to us and herself that imaginative journeys are a process of learning, just like "Where the Wild Things Are" by Sendak.

In "Where the Wild Things Are" a picture book by Maurice Sendak, a boy Max has been sent to his room for misbehaving, because he is trapped he decides to go on an imaginative journey to "Where the Wild Things Are" meeting the beasts in this imaginative jungle, and where he learns to tame "wild urges".  This is achieved through the use of symbolism the moon in the first picture of Max's room being a crescent and when he returns after he learns to tame his "wild urges" the moon is full, suggesting a completeness that he has learnt and is now satisfied, indicating that the imaginative journey has resulted in a process of learning.  

Sendak also explores the idea that imaginative journeys give immense freedom, even when physically trapped.  This is explored through the use of contrast between the room that Max is trapped in and the jungle he imaginatively transports himself in.  The room seems constricting and confined but the jungle, compared to the room, gives a feeling of exhilaration, of freedom and because it is imaginary it suggests that this kind of freedom can be achieved even when physically trapped.  There is also the use of text as Max goes on his imaginative journey there is less text, leaving the reader to interpret the pictures alone, as eventually this is all they are left with, instead of reading and seeing what is written, it gives us a feeling also of freedom as we are free to interpret the pictures. Sendak gives us the feeling of freedom in Max's imaginative journey in order to demonstrate the immense freedom imaginative journeys can give anyone who goes on them.  Margaret Atwood also looks at this freedom but with a much more cynical attitude, suggesting this freedom as a hazard of imaginative journeys.

Atwood seems to suggest that imaginative journeys grant us with so much freedom that they are a danger, that they can lead us to get lost in the process of imagining.  Atwood achieves this through the use of punctuation, making her poem more free-flowing and long, suggesting a freedom in this journey.  She also uses rhetorical questioning asking herself "Have I been walking in circles again?"  The rhetorical question illustrates the uncertainty of even being lost due to this free-flowing freedom, suggesting that imaginary journeys grant us with so much freedom that we can get lost in them.



While this statement does not address all aspects of Journey, when using the focal point of Imaginative Journey, it is accurate and also to the point. The Imaginative Journey will often, particularly when coupled with the Inner Journey, precisely echo this statement. 
This statement also will be examined through the core text, The Tempest, a play by Shakespeare, a text from the Board of Studies Stimulus Booklet; this is an extract from the work by Shirley Geok-lin Lim, The Town Where Time Stands Still. Also to be examined will be additional texts, comprising of the book Nineteen Eighty-Four, written by George Orwell and the film American Beauty, composed by Alan Ball. The Imaginative Journey could be described as the exploration of fictional, or possible, but not as of yet existing circumstance; which is, or can be, created through the manipulation of the subconscious mind. This might be in response to an inner or physical journey, or simply in response to changing external conditions.

Within The Tempest, Imaginative Journey is conducted through the use of the central character, Prospero, with the use of the theme Art versus Nature. This is particularly well seen in Prospero’s manipulations of the nymph, Ariel. The journey of Prospero through the play is the central point, and although Prospero does in the end obtain his goals, it is the journey taken which allows him to realise this and  attempt to correct this faults, a thing which would have been impossible without his Imaginative Journey. In the epilogue, Prospero abandons his Art to return to his starting point, which he is only able to do because of his Imaginative Journey.  This may be seen in the quote:
Prospero: “…my charms are all o’erthrown,
And what strengths I have’s mine own…
Let me not
Since I have my dukedom got…
Dwell…In this bare island …”
 (Epilogue, Pg 133, Lines 1-2, 5-7)
In the quote, Prospero is using an aside to the audience, a technique which adds to the significance of the piece, implying that in the completion of his Imaginative Journey, Prospero is now without the Art necessary to free himself, and must instead turn to the power of the responder to save him, in this case, quite literally asking for their applause and support to help him to reach Naples with the king’s party. So, it might be seen that within The Tempest, it is the Imaginative Journey which is important, not the resolution of the journey, as this journey does not end; it is merely transferred to the responder, becoming their Imaginative Journey rather than that of the central character.

The extract from the Stimulus Booklet, The Town Where Time Stands Still, also reflects the statement made by LeGuin, in that it discusses the necessary and sometimes unconscious search of travellers, the concept of travel or journey in the hope to be “…moved rather than move…” (the genii loci) a pure form of the journey, not so much physical as within the mind; this text also relates to the point raised in The Tempest, that of the Imaginative Journey being necessary to develop the inner mind as well as the inner journey; as Shakespeare with Prospero, Lim argues that the traveller through his journey seeks:
“…external geography that will act on their inner phycology…so that they will return to the place from which they came blessed and altered”. 
(Text 7, Lines 4-6)
The quote explains the search for the genii loci, and this is seen also in Prospero’s banishment from the Dukedom of Milan, through his perusal of his Art, which, in this respect could be seen as his search for the genii loci, leading to his discovery of the island; this is where he is be able to continue his studies of Art, and through these studies, complete his Imaginative Journey and discover the genii loci. However, where Shakespeare has shown that it was the Imaginative Journey which had brought Prospero back to his original staring point “…blessed and altered…”, Lim argues here that it was the act of seeking out the journey itself that allowed his return to his beginnings, not just the completion of his Imaginative Journey, and passing the journey to his responder.

The text Nineteen Eighty-Four shows the importance of the journey over its end excellently, particularly that of the Imaginative Journey. The central character, Winston Smith, similarly to Prospero in The Tempest, discovers through the Imaginative Journey the possibility and final achievement of returning to the original starting point; but while this was discovered by Prospero through the use of genii loci, and was in fact a positive and desired or sought after resolution, Winston‘s journey was an almost purely imaginative journey, and returns to his starting point ‘altered’, though not ‘blessed’. With Winston’s discovery of genii loci forcefully placed upon him, rather than chosen, as with Prospero, through Winston’s arrest, and treatment at the Ministry of Love. The texts could be related however, through the theme of Foretelling; for just as Winston realises and accepts his own demise, and his eventual death, visualizing this in various forms throughout the text, Prospero all through The Tempest uses his foretelling, and use of his Art, to control the events of the island, which contributes to the theme of Art versus Nature. In Nineteen Eighty-Four, Winston realises what path his life will take due to his own actions, as is seen in the quotes:
He had moved from thoughts to words, and now from words to actions….the end was contained in the beginning… it was like a foretaste of death, like being a little less alive... “…this is what you accepted when you set yourself up against the Party…nothing has happened which you did not foresee…”
“…all happenings are in the mind. Whatever happens in all minds, truly happens…” 
(Pg 166 286,291)
These quotes show how, in the end, Winston is so completely ‘altered’ by his foretelling of his destination that the imaginative journey itself, which had allowed for the growth and development of his inner journey, was destroyed by his own foretelling, and the acknowledgement of these. The foretelling seen in Nineteen Eighty-Four is not only a theme, but also a technique; which allowed the author to project his own opinions and predictions into the text, and to become a narrator within the character of Winston. The foretelling in Nineteen Eighty-Four is also shown in The Tempest, and is particularly well seen in the epilogue, in such lines as:

Prospero: “With help of your good hands…
…or else my project fails… 
And my ending is despair
 Unless I be relieved with prayer…”
(Epilogue, Lines 10, 12, 15)
Here, Shakespeare has used inclusive language to draw the responder into the text, and to create dramatic tension. Prospero is asking that the responder, in this case his audience, aid his return to civilisation, as his Foretelling has seen that without their help, or his own Art, the efforts that he has made will come to nothing, and that the voyage itself will end badly for all concerned.

The theme of Freedom is the primary link between The Tempest and American Beauty.   The journey of American Beauty is integral to the text, with the central character, Lester Burnham, using the Imaginative Journey to find the freedom in his life; this journey is brought about by the introduction of an external factor, the character of Angela, who then becomes the focal point of his fantasies, and through these, his imaginative journey. This is seen in the quote:
“…in less than a year I’ll be dead…I have lost something…but you know what? It’s never too late to get it back…I cant feel anything but gratitude for every single moment of my stupid little life…”
The end of Lester’s journey, like that of Winston, results in his death, however, unlike Winston’s return to the starting point, Lester is able to continue his imaginative journey through death; this releasing him to a true freedom. This freedom is similar to that of Prospero in The Tempest; however Prospero needs the aid of his audience to achieve that freedom;  
Prospero: “…release me from my bands…
…as you from your crimes would pardoned be,
Let your indulgence set me free…” 
(Epilogue, lines 9, 19-20)
Like The Tempest, and Nineteen Eighty-Four, American Beauty is responding to the social context of the period, for, where Nineteen Eighty-Four is a prediction of society at a future date, based on the current trends of society and its decline, American Beauty is commenting directly on the society it was written in; the myth of the American dream and the decline of society perceived by its composer. The Tempest was commenting on the social context of the period it was written; the fifteenth century, the ‘Age of Exploration’, and, in this, Shakespeare was specifically referring to the Bermuda Pamphlets, and  to the tale of the Sea Adventure, which lead to the theme of the Unknown, and the introduction of Prospero’s Art. 

It can be seen from the use of all of this text that the Journey is by far the most important matter of all; more so than where the journey might end, and also that the imaginative journey is the most important of all journeys, as all other journeys will stem from this single point. The Tempest, and Nineteen Eighty-Four, American Beauty and The Town Where Time Stands Still all help to show this point equally, although The Town Where Time Stands Still is perhaps one text which will bring to the others a valued point; that of genii loci, which is the founding point and the driving force behind the eternal appeal of the journey over its final resolution. From Prospero, to Winston, and finally Lester, it is clear that, while having a final destination to journey towards is an important thing, in the end, it is the journey that matters and that sometimes, you may find, like Winston, that the end is not truly what you have planned, predicted, anticipated or even thought of in the first place.


